---
title: "Chapter 19"
show_date: true
date: 2023-10-02T17:00:00-00:00
sessiondate: "October 2, 2023"
modified: 2023-10-02
categories:
  - campaign
tags:
  - tavern
  - fight
---

The adventurers gather around Tella to hear about this job he wants them to take on,
as new members of the Heart of the People.

"There's something odd going on down in Food Alley. And by odd, I mean the magical kind
that makes the Eyes of the Wand go in and really muck things up for the store owners. The
citizens support the Heart because we're able to handle these situations without a 
bureacratic shitfest that closes them down for a few weeks. That's all we know.
You seem adept enough to figure it out _and_ handle any problems that come alive."

Long rest....

After breakfast, the group heads over to Dolly's Donuts in Food Alley. According to Tella,
Dolly reported some extremely weird goings-ons lately. When they arrive, the smell of
freshly baked donuts has Grindelfoot and Bilwin salivating. They immediately order
a dozen different donuts.

While they're questioning Dolly, the half-elf owner of the bakery, and her staff (Fred,
Marigold, and Wexon), the donuts suddenly come alive and attack the group! They find
themselves slicing up old fashioneds, long johns, and cake donuts while fighting off
acidic strawberry filling. 

A blueberry jelly donut jumps directly into Dolor's mouth
trying to choke him. Being his favorite, Dolor decides to spend his next turn chewing
it up and eating it for second breakfast. 

Covered in [jimmies](https://myshipleydonuts.com/the-history-of-sprinkles), the adventurers
eventually slay the final pastry.

Mond calmly says, "Now I'm glazed and confused."

<!-- em dash: — | kebyoard shortcut = Option + Shift + Dash (-) -->
<!-- https://oatcookies.neocities.org/dndmoney to convert copper, silver, gold, and more into CP -->
