---
title: "Chapter 23"
show_date: true
date: 2023-11-27T17:00:00-00:00
sessiondate: "November 27, 2023"
modified: 2023-11-27
categories:
  - campaign
tags:
---

It's mid-morning and the group has settled into their quarters on the Iron Vulture.
Not wanting to waste any time, they hatch a plan to investigate Davanor's warehouse
more closely.

In the privacy of a cabin, Grindlefoot [wild shapes](https://www.dndbeyond.com/posts/635-druid-101-wild-shape-guide)
into a [rat](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/16891-giant-rat) and clamors into Dolor's pocket.
Leaving the ship, the group splits up to avoid notice. Bilwin sets up at a busy corner
close to the warehouse's front door, pulls out his [hurdy-gurdy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hurdy-gurdy),
and begins to tune the instrument to his own unique tastes. The two muscular guards pay
little attention to him, or much of anything else, for that matter.

Dolor and Gven meander through the crowd slowly, as though they're talking business
while taking in the salty sea air and other pungent smells that city docks are renowned
for. Shortly past the building's front door, at an alleyway, Dolor stoops down as though to
adjust his boots, and gives Grindlefoot the signal. Disguised as a rat, he quickly hops out and
scurries off into the alleyway, in search of a subtle entrance into the warehouse.
Intent on their own business, the crowds passing by the warehouse and surrounding buildings
barely notice the tiefling and half-orc, let alone the rodent.

Mond trails the group, keeping distance between them so that he can monitor any unusual
activity or interest in the group. A block away from the warehouse, he pauses to listen to
a red-haired female halfling playing a violin—and it's lovely, like nothing he's heard
before.

Bilwin begins busking at the corner and the guards perk up a bit, interested in something
to help pass the time. Gven and Dolor stop a little bit further down the street, apparently
deep in discussion—while keeping an eye on the warehouse and guards.

Grindlefoot scuttles down the alleyway, acutely aware of—and enjoying—the smells that would
have turned his stomach if he were in his usual halfling form. Seeing a drain pipe leading
down from the roof, he grabs hold and climbs up, looking for an open window or other entry
point. Reaching the rooftop, he notices a half-elf wearing leather armor posted at the
front of the building, grimacing to themselves as they lean over and watch Bilwin playing
quite poorly. Grindlefoot can barely make out the voices of the guards on the street,
encouraging Bilwin to go home and practice some more.

It takes Grindlefoot several minutes to find the trap door that provides access to the
roof, but he's unable to open it in his current form. Starting his search anew, he soon
discovers a ventilation pipe and scrambles down it. Losing his footing, he tumbles down
the shaft and lands in what seems like a tub of dirty water. Coming to the surface, he
immediately notices the stench and the shape of a toilet seat above him—he's landed in
the latrine and taken 6 in damage during the fall.

Thankfully, rats are capable swimmers and climbers, making a quick escape from the
stinky brown water nightmare. Shaking the wetness off his fur, he takes a few minutes
to assess his surroundings and hears voices coming from beyond the toilet's door.

"Did ya hear dat fella violating dat weird looking thing out front? Damn if it ain't
a crime to humanity to call dat music."

"Nah, boss's got me doin' inventory for dis new lot."

"Lucky. At least it keeps ya 'wake. Heard da next ship might be a few days late, cuz
a dat storm. Oh well, still get paid."

Grindlefoot knows that his hour is about up for the wild shape. He decides to rely
on his natural stealthiness as a halfling, with the added benefits of casting
[Pass without a Trace](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/pass-without-trace), to
scope out the warehouse. Leaving the latrine and keeping to the shadows, he begins
his reconnaissance.

The warehouse is two-stories high, mostly open so that crates and containers can
be stacked securely. There's a small office built into a second-story platform in
one of the building's corners, with a narrow stairway providing access to and from
the warehouse floor. Extending out from the office in each direction, a narrow walkway
provides access around the interior of the building and clear view for guards
watching dock workers bring in or remove goods.

Grindlefoot spies a window that is unlatched and makes his way towards his exit.
Passing through the rows of crates, he closely inspects the origin stamps on several
of them: Erebore, Oreleone, and Amonah. Slipping out the window unnoticed, he lands
in the same alley were he entered as a rat. He casually walks out to the main street
and over to Dolor and Gven, joining their conversation.

The group reconvenes at the Iron Vulture, where they decide to investigate the
origin cities at the Hall of Records. Entering the Hall, they're met by an eight
foot tall elephant, standing by the front desk, reading a book through ridiculously
oversized reading glasses precariously perched on the bridge of it's snout, between
it's eyes. The [loxodon](http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/lineage:loxodon) looks at them
and in it's booming voice, "morning gentle folk, I'm Brooj. How may I help you?"

Dolor responds, "We're looking for information on some possible locations for shipping
partners. Specifically, we're curious about Erebore, Orleone, and Amonah. Would you be
able to help?"

"Well, lad, we're a city hall of records, not a regional or national one, but I
might be able to get you some basic information based on my 238 years of experience
in this office. Let's see, if I recall, Erebore and Orleone are both coastal cities;
Erebore is north of Elsemar and Orleone is to the south. I've never heard of Amonah,
though. Are you sure that's correct?"

"Yes, that's what our associates said. We were stumped as well."

"You need a cartographer, someone who knows the lands and deals in geography for
a living. Hmm, there's a reputable one in the Scrivener's Ward, called The Four Corners."
Brooj seems to get a grin underneath their trunk, "always thought that was a clever name.
Well, best of luck to you, fine folk."



<!-- em dash: — | kebyoard shortcut = Option + Shift + Dash (-) -->
<!-- https://oatcookies.neocities.org/dndmoney to convert copper, silver, gold, and more into CP -->
