---
title: "Chapter 16"
show_date: true
date: 2023-08-21T17:00:00-00:00
sessiondate: "August 21, 2023"
modified: 2023-08-21
categories:
  - campaign
tags:
  - on-the-road
  - tavern
---

_For brevity's sake, the narrator has left out much of the dialog and banter, although it was
quite entertaining in the moments._

It's early afternoon, several hours before dusk will begin to takeover the day, as the adventurers
approach the Pride of the Coast, Elsemar. Before reaching the gates, they pass through the Shade,
a seeming overflow of people, homes, and businesses from the city proper, that sidles right up to the
city walls. After 15 minutes of walking, they reach the gates, open during peace time yet guarded
by the city watch, dressed in the city's deep purple and bright silver livery.

About twenty feet in front of the main gate is an arch across the last stretch of The Ha-derech.
The group stops at a building a short distance from the arch and see that all of the travelers are
walking through it. A guard standing in the center of the road, between the arch and the gate, trains
a sharp eye on each visitor as they pass through. Every once in awhile, they direct a traveler off
to the side of the road for questioning or tell them to register with the Hall of Records.

As the adventurers proceed through the archway, the guard stops them for questioning. Within a few
minutes, they direct Dolor and Bilwin to register their magical items: Dolor's sword, Gleaming Blade,
and Bilwin's ever-filled beer stein. The guard turns to Mond and asks if he's already registered in
the city or has papers to enter. Admitting that he has neither, Mond is ordered to go directly to
the Hall of Records and register. If he doesn't comply, the city guard will have to take _precautionary
measures_, as the guard points to others along the wall with arrows knocked and pointed at Mond.

The group proceeds through the Scrivener's Burrough, immediately beyond the gate and the Pride and
Comfort's stables, to register Mond. Only if he files the proper paperwork with the city registrants,
will he be allowed to stay.

As they enter the Hall of Records, he adventurers see several members of the Eyes of the Star and
Hands of the Wand walking around, usually in pairs talking in a semi-hushed manner, implying that
others shouldn't be eavesdropping yet not too concerned about the possibility within these walls.

Off to the side from the entrance, a [tortle](https://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/Tortle_(5e_Race_Variant))
greets them, "Awright stranger, howfur kin ah hulp ye? ah, ah see that ye, young half-elf, need
tae set yersel' up. That is, unless ye'r interested in joining th' Hauns o' th' Wand. Ainlie a nine
year commitment!"

Mond politely declines the invitation to enlist and pays the animated tortoise 25 gold pieces for
a 7-day pass, with the option to renew for 5 gold pieces—only before the pass expires.

<!-- Scottish translator: http://www.scotranslate.com/ -->

Exiting the Hall of Records, they head towards the market to begin their search for lodging and
news of Gven's brother, Torp. Meandering through the various booths and vendors, their uncertainty
is apparent to many. A [tabaxi](https://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/Tabaxi_(5e_Race_Variant))
with black fur, except for a wide patch of white running down the middle of its body from head
to feet, approaches them and offers their assistance.

"My name is Rightside and I know Elsemar like the back of my paw," as he gives his left paw a few
quick licks and then wipes one of his whispers. "I can help ya find what you need or who you be
looking for. Remember, Rightside will do ya righ!" After some back and forth between the tabaxi
and the group, they settle on 5 silver pieces a day for Rightside's exclusive services. First on
their list, find an inn to stow their belongings and get some sustenance—Bilwin is especially
focused on refilling his now registered magical beer stein.

Rightside leads them to an older establishment, off the beaten path and in a quieter part
of the city. Hanging from the second story, offset from the front door, is a sign with
a brass-colored spy glass carved into it. The barkeep rolls his eyes and gives an audible
groan as he sees the tabaxi enter behind them.

"Rightside, I thought you agreed to keep yourself away from the Spy Glass? I only just got the
place fixed up after that last group of 'clients,' as you called them!"

But, Tella, these travelers are upstanding citizens of Olam and duly-registered visitors to
our grand city! Not like those miscreants." Rightside suddenly stops speaking and looks up to
the ceiling, their eyes studying a bright fluttering reflection from one of the shiny spy glasses
decorating the inn's common room. A full 10 seconds later they look back at Tella, "That group
of ne'er-do-wells deserved what they got from the city watch and I've repaid my debt to you.
These fine folks have plenty of coin and need a safe place to respite from watchful eyes."

With a hefty sigh, Tella nods his head in agreement and—after negotiating with Bilwin—agrees
to rent them 5 rooms for a total of 4 gold pieces per night, including meals and one drink
of their choice per meal.

Tella offers the group some leftovers from lunch and a round of beers. As they replenish themselves,
the adventurers begin asking Rightside and Tella about Davanor and a place called the Job Distribution
Center. Rightside hasn't heard of him, but Tella describes Davanor as someone of moderate
importance in the Sliver, the burrough between the docks and Scrivener's Ward. His dealings aren't
exactly of the legal sort and the city watch don't seem to get involved with him much, if at all.

Tella heads back into the kitchen to start preparing for the dinner crowd as they continue
talking with Rightside. A short time later, the black and white tabaxi leaves the Spy Glass to
search for news of Davanor, Torp, and the mysterious building. 

Tella comes through the kitchen door into the common room, sees Rightside leaving, and
walks over to their table with a look of concern. "Y'all better do right by him. He's industrious
and honest and doesn't know the city half as well as he thinks he does. Be careful what you ask
him to do, it might get him in trouble." Dolor responds with a serious tone, "we take care
of our own and, as of now, Rightside is with us. We'll do our best to keep him out of harm's
way."

A little while later, too impatient to wait for Rightside's return, the group decides
to walk the Sliver to see if they can stumble across the Job Distribution Center themselves.
Before they leave, Tella looks at Mond, points to his small "Make Elsemar Great Again" button
that marks him as an arcane magic user, and says "you know, you can put that under your lapel
or in a pocket so it's not so visible." Mond deftly moves the button out of sight, somewhere
in his clothes.

Walking through the Market, they can see the quality of merchandise and demeanor of the vendors
change as they enter the Sliver. Grindlefoot purchased a bag of nuts somewhere along the way and is
absentmindedly eathing them as they walk. Passing a surly looking merchant and their booth, Bilwin
casually says "Ya know where we can find a large building called the Job Distribution Center? It has
some sort of statue on top, with a human male standing over an orc." Normally not the type to help
strangers, the merchant succumbs to Bilwin's persuasive request and points down the alley, "you
mean 'the Block?' Yeah, it's down there to the left."

The streets are narrow until they arrive at The Block, an open area where several streets meet,
creating a natural gathering point for people passing through. Bilwin sees an empty stage and
immediately walks to it, uncovering his [hurdy-gurdy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hurdy-gurdy)
and begins to play in a way best described as caterwauling.

Dolor and Grindlefoot decide to enter the large rectangular building through the formidable
front doors, while Gven and Mond scout around it for other entrances. Entering into a large
reception area, a middle-aged female human woman gruffly asks them "Looking for work?" Dolor
responds in the affirmative and she follows up with "any misgivings or run-ins with the city
watch?" Dolor confirms that they haven't and she says "have a job for ya then—you look like you
can handle it. I'll just need a few drops of your blood to get the paperwork started."

Recognizing something's amiss, Dolor and Grindlefoot decline the offer and exit the building,
returning to the square out front. Bilwin is still playing to an unappreciative crowd, and Gven
and Mond turn the corner finishing their brief scouting mission. There's a small backdoor and
some windows on the first level, but otherwise it's locked up tight. The group heads back to
the Spy Glass.

<!-- em dash: — | kebyoard shortcut = Option + Shift + Dash (-) -->
