---
title: "Appendix"
show_date: true
date: 2023-01-23T12:30:00-00:00
sessiondate: "June 6, 2023"
categories:
  - notes
tags:
  - appendix
  - history
  - people
  - places
  - things
toc: true
toc_label: "Appendix"
---

{% include toc %}

This appendix includes an alphabetical listing of the people the adventurers have met,
the places they've visited, and the things they've encountered along their journey.

# People

## Adventurers

*   **[Dolor Vagarpie](/dnd/adventurers/dolor-vagarpie/)**
*   **[Grindlefoot](/dnd/adventurers/grindlefoot/)**
*   **[Gven Vetkam](/dnd/adventurers/gven-vetkam/)**
*   **[Xantic Gearslip](/dnd/adventurers/xantic-gearslip/)**

## Characters

*   **Ben Dabbler** - Male halfling who owns The Bargain Ben, a shop located in Wayside.
    [[ch. 1](/dnd/campaign/chapter-1/)]
*   **Cabanna** - Non-binary tiefling member of the Low Elves in Wayside. [[ch. 3](/dnd/campaign/chapter-3/)]
*   **Cindel** - Female half-elven leader of the Low Elves in Wayside. She loves
    to say "huzzah!" and always seems to end a pivotal moment in battle or conversation
    while standing in a shining sunbeam with a gentle wind blowing her hair and cape out
    behind her in a dramatic way. [[ch. 1](/dnd/campaign/chapter-1/), [ch. 2](/dnd/campaign/chapter-2/),
    [ch. 3](/dnd/campaign/chapter-3/), [ch. 4](/dnd/campaign/chapter-4/)]
*   **Elar** - Human husband of Preva who was captured by goblins, along with their
    daughter, Vera, while out hunting in the forests surrounding Wayside.
*   **Elve** - Male human member of the Low Elves in Wayside. [[ch. 2](/dnd/campaign/chapter-2/)]
*   **Grak** - Male goblin member of the Low Elves in Wayside—he doesn't wear pants,
    unless things get serious. [[ch. 2](/dnd/campaign/chapter-2/), [ch. 3](/dnd/campaign/chapter-3/)]
*   **Halodreth** - The owner of Scribbles & Nibs apothecary shop in Wayside, who
    has a raven familiar named Herbert. [[ch. 4](/dnd/campaign/chapter-4/)]
*   **Herbert** - Halodreth's raven familiar.
*   **Lyra Swiftarrow** - Half-elven ranger who lives in the forest east of Wayside.
*   **Magnus** - Male human nobleman member of the Low Elves in Wayside. [[ch. 2](/dnd/campaign/chapter-2/),
    [ch. 3](/dnd/campaign/chapter-3/)]
*   **Preet** - Male human member of the Low Elves in Wayside. [[ch. 2](/dnd/campaign/chapter-2/),
    [ch. 3](/dnd/campaign/chapter-3/)]
*   **Preva** - Female human owner of the flower shop in Wayside, wife of Elar, and
    mother of Vera.
*   **Skeller** - Male tiefling and traveling tinker and locksmith. [[ch. 5](/dnd/campaign/chapter-5/),
    [ch. 6](/dnd/campaign/chapter-6/)]
*   **Vera** - Human daughter of Preva and Elar, who was captured by goblins, along with
    her father, Elar, while out hunting in the forests surrounding Wayside.

## Foes, monsters, & creatures

*   **Chimera** - The adventurers first significant challenge, where they slayed a
    [chimera](https://forgottenrealms.fandom.com/wiki/Chimera) that was troubling one
    of Ben's many fields in the area. After this conquest, the group began calling
    themselves Chimera's Bane. [ch. 4](/dnd/campaign/chapter-4/)
*   **Great Mouth** [The Great Mouth] - A hill giant who lives in the lower part of
    the mountain range to the east of Wayside. Local goblin tribes worship him and
    bring him food and tributes. [[ch. 9](/dnd/campaign/chapter-9/), [ch. 10](/dnd/campaign/chapter-10/),
    [ch. 11](/dnd/campaign/chapter-11/)]
*   **Picksmack** - Magic-using leader of the goblin tribe who captured Elar and Vera,
    and worshipped The Great Mouth. [[ch. 8](/dnd/campaign/chapter-8/), [ch. 9](/dnd/campaign/chapter-9/)]

## Groups

*   **Chimera's Bane** - Nickname for the primary group of adventurers. [[ch. 7](/dnd/campaign/chapter-7/)]
*   **Eyes of the Star** - [[ch. 5](/dnd/campaign/chapter-5/)]
*   **Hand of the Wand** - [[ch. 5](/dnd/campaign/chapter-5/)]
*   **Low Elves** - Group of local heroes who reside in the town of Wayside. Members
    include: Cyndal (leader), Grik, Preet. [[ch. 2](/dnd/campaign/chapter-2/), [[ch. 3](/dnd/campaign/chapter-3/)],
    [[ch. 4](/dnd/campaign/chapter-4/)]]
*   **Mixed Nuts** [The Mixed Nuts] - An impromptu and temporary name for the primary
    group of adventurers, said in haste when first meeting Cindel and the Low Elves
    over drinks in the Buzzin Bee.
*   **Pride and Comfort** - [[ch. 5](/dnd/campaign/chapter-5/)]

# Places

## Shops, inns, & pubs

*   **Bargain Ben** [The Bargain Ben] - Variety shop in Wayside, owned by Ben Dabbler.
*   **Buzzin Bee Inn** - Inn and pub in Wayside, owned by Bonnie and her younger
    sister, Trill.
*   **Preva's Flower Shop** - Flower shop in Wayside, owned by Preva, wife of Elar
    and mother of Vera.
*   **Scribbles & Nibs** - Apothecary shop in Wayside, owned by Halodreth.

## Landmarks, roads, & trails

*   **Big Trail** - The large trail from the Ha-derech up to Mount Question, to the west of
    Wayside. [[ch. 2](/dnd/campaign/chapter-2/)]
*   **Ha-derech** [The Ha-derech] - The main road that runs east-west across the continent of Eritz
    and connects the two main cities, Mirganor, on the East coast, and Elsemar, on the West coast.
    Those familiar with history understand the inside joke that ha-darech means "the road" and
    by calling it "the ha-derech", unknowing folks are saying "the the road." [[ch. 1](/dnd/campaign/chapter-1/)]
*   **Little Trail** -  The small trail from the Ha-derech up to Mount Question, to the west of
    Wayside. [[ch. 2](/dnd/campaign/chapter-2/)]
*   **Mount Question** - A mountain located close to Wayside, off to the west, towards
    Elsemar. The local river runs along its lower edges. [[ch. 2](/dnd/campaign/chapter-2/)]
*   **Other Trail** -  Trail from the Ha-derech into the forest and foothills, to the east of
    Wayside. [[ch. 2](/dnd/campaign/chapter-2/)]

## Towns, villages, & cities

*   **Elsemar** - The primary city on the west coast of Eritz, accessible by The Ha-derech.
*   **Eritz** - The largest continent on the world of Olam, where the adventurers are journeying.
*   **Mirganor** - The primary city on the east coast of Eritz, accessible by The Ha-derech.
*   **Olam** - The world which contains the continent of Eritz, among others.
*   **Quiet Valley** [The Quiet Valley] - The area where Wayside is located, within the Unmarked Territories.
*   **Unmarked Territories** - A rural area that is known for its lush forests and quaint villages
    and is 6-7 days walk east from Elsemar.
*   **Wayside** - Small village on The Ha-derech that is about 7 days walk east from Elsemar, in
    The Quiet Valley, an area of the Unmarked Territories.

# Things

## Plants

*   **Hero's Wort** - A plant created and farmed by Ben in the countryside around Wayside. It has
    a stalk similar to corn and large tobacco-like leaves that drape over themselves. When inhaled
    the recipient gains +3 to proficiencies for 1 round, not including attacks.
    [[ch. 4](/dnd/campaign/chapter-4/)]

## Objects

*   **Gleaming Blade** - Dolor's shortsword, acquired during their encounter with the goblins
    who were holding Elar prisoner in caves outside of Wayside [see [ch. 9](/dnd/campaign/chapter-9/)].
    It was originally wielded by a Paladin in their quest for honor and glory. While being wielded,
    the blade gives +1 to armor class (AC), resistance to Radiant Damage, and for true strikes
    (rolling a natural 20) it emits a radiant glow where the target must roll a constitution saving
    throw or become blinded until their next turn.
