---
title: "Chapter 8"
show_date: true
date: 2023-04-21T17:00:00-00:00
sessiondate: "April 21, 2023"
categories:
  - campaign
tags:
  - fight
---

Still regaining their breath from the recent skirmish with the four goblins, the adventurers
investigate the chamber before proceeding further inward. It's roughly forty feet by forty feet
and seems to be of natural origin, better at preventing wayward animals than armed foes from
entering the goblin's caves. While investigating the chamber, Grindlefoot ponders out loud,
"why do frogs have [darkvision](https://roleplayersrespite.com/darkvision-5e)?" Only silence
answers.

The group looks to the opposite end of the cavern from where they entered and see that the tunnel
continues onward. Xantic sends McGillicutty to explore ahead of them, looking out for danger
of any sort. The tunnels appear to become more natural, smaller in width and height, and less
like they were shaped by tools. At some exceptionally short points, Gven and Dolor are forced to
crawl in order to continue forward. Eventually, the tunnel opens up enough for the group to
stand up and stretch their limbs, although they must continue walking single file.

Gven is following behind McGillicutty and notices the floor has a peculiar feeling to it, even
though McGillicutty hasn't reported anything amiss. Suddenly, she falls into a pit that had a
thin covering over it, obscuring it from view. Feeling more embarrassed than hurt, Gven takes
2 damage from the ten foot drop and then crawls up the far side, ten feet away from where she
fell.

The remaining group members snicker at her failure to detect or navigate the naturally formed
pit. As though Joli (jaa·lee), the God of Pooping Crows, is looking down upon them at that
very moment, each of the others also fall into the pit—even while knowing it's there—with
Xantic taking 4 damage, Grindlefoot 3, and Dolor 3. McGillicutty shrugs their tiny shoulders
and half-grins at the others inability to navigate the pit as easily as McGillicutty had.

Continuing onward, the group encounters another cavern that opens up from the tunnel. Dolor
sneaks up to the opening and can see two [bugbears](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/16817-bugbear)
on the far side of the cave. The adventurers ready their weapons and begin sneaking towards
the bugbears, hoping that they're sleeping or unaware. They cover 30 feet, about halfway across
the cave, when Xantic and Dolor trip over the tiniest of cracks in the floor, alerting
the bugbears to their presence. One of them sounds the alarm, clearly alerting anyone or thing
in the system of tunnels.

Dolor shrugs his shoulders and says "Oh well, here we go."

Fight choreography:
*   Dolor misses with his shortbow.
*   Xantic fires his Force Ballista [Eldritch Cannon](http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/artificer:artillerist#toc2)
    and misses.
    *   He then fires [Frostbite](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/frostbite) and misses.
*   A bugbear attacks Gven with a spiked club, causing 8 damage.
*   The other bugbear attacks Dolor and misses.
*   Gven invokes her [barbarian rage](https://www.thegamer.com/dungeons-dragons-dnd-barbarian-rage-explained-guide/)
    and misses a bugbear with her longsword.
*   Grindlefoot sprints towards a bugbear and takes a large jump, flinging himself at
    the creature while turning into a restrictor snake...and misses.
*   Dolor is able to perform a sneak attack with his shortsword for 10 damage.
*   Xantic fires the Eldritch Cannon at the bugbear in front of Dolor, causing 7 damage.
    *   He then attacks with his shortsword and misses.
*   A bugbear attacks and misses Gven.
*   The other bugbear attacks and misses Dolor.
*   Gven takes a wallop out of the first bugbear with her longsword, causing 23 damage and
    leaving it looking very wobbly.
*   Grindlefoot, recovered from his missed flying snake attack, slithers over to the
    bugbear by Dolor and grapples it around the neck, causing 5 damage and killing it.
*   Dolor attacks the final bugbear with his shortsword, quickly giving it the death
    that fate has dealed it this day.

Although the alarm has been rung, the group takes a few minutes to investigate the bugbears
and their surroundings. Looking at their sparse and dirty pieces of armor, Gven notices
a symbol, like an insignia, that is shaped like a yelling mouth. They recall that the four
goblins in the first cavern were wearing the same thing on their clothing. Dolor begins
to hear an uptick in the sounds coming from the inner tunnels, as though goblins, or something,
is responding to the alarm.

The adventurers continue on for about an hour, noticing that the tunnels seem to delve
lower and deeper into the ground. Finally, they reach a point where McGillicutty doesn't
return from their short exploration. Xantic can tell that they're still alive, yet
doesn't know why they haven't returned.

Grindlefoot, as a snake, moves ahead to scout and discover what's become of McGillicutty.
As the tunnel bends to the right, he can see McGillicutty standing still because he's
caught in a gargantuan web. The webs extend in every direction, encompassing all possible
paths through a very large cavern. Grindlefoot is able to wiggle McGillicutty free from
the sticky webs and they return to the group.


