---
title: "Chapter 24"
show_date: true
date: 2023-12-29T17:00:00-00:00
sessiondate: "December 29, 2023"
modified: 2023-12-29
categories:
  - campaign
tags:
  - elsemar
  - tavern
---

It's early evening when the group makes it back to the Iron Vulture and settles into
the common area below deck to discuss their next move. Only a few minutes passes before
Dolor hears scratching on the outside of the hull, close to one of the small round windows.
Peering out the glass, Dolor sees Rightside hanging off the side of the ship, his claws
digging into the sill surrounding the window. "I heard some news. Can...umm...can I come
in...now, please?"

After Rightside scrambles through the porthole into the ship's common area, Dolor
chastises him. "Next time, walk up the gang plank like everyone else. A dry
[tabaxi](https://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/Tabaxi_(5e_Race_Variant)) makes less of a ruckus
than a drenching wet one who's fallen from the side of a ship into the harbor water."

"Oh, oh, hide in plain sight! Great idea!"

Mond looks kindly at Rightside, "it's good to see you, friend. What have you heard?"

"A ship came into the harbor yesterday and docked close to that warehouse of Davanor's
you're interested in. Yes, yes, ships do that all the time, but this is
different. Not many ships coming and going the last few days, right. Have you heard of
the big storm out in the sea? It's keeping the ships from getting in or out of Elesemar's
bay, and I mean all the ships...except for this one! People are talking. How were they
able to get through storms that no other captains can, experienced captains, mind you?
Something's up."

Suddenly, Rightside's eyes dart to a small shiny piece of brass reflecting
the lamp light and he goes quiet for a moment while fixated on the glimmering metal.

Slowly, his gaze moves away from the shiny object and he continues his tale.
"I got close enough to hear some of the workers at the
warehouse say that they'll unload it at 10 PM tonight, after things settle down on the
dock and streets."

"That's good information, and timely too. Thank you, Rightside," says Dolor.

With some discussion, the group decides to watch the ship unload later that night from
the cover and supposed comfort of Weigh Anchor, a dive bar across the street with a
decent view of the ship and the warehouse. Mond will remain at the Iron Vulture, watching
from the crow's nest with a broader view of the ship, harbor, warehouse, and streets.

Realizing that they're slightly cleaner than the usual patron at Weigh Anchor, the
group is discussing how to dirty themselves up a bit when Cap'n Don pokes his head up
from the underbelly of the ship. He's covered in charcoal colored grease and grime,
"Och, that damnable piece o' machinery!" Finding himself facing the surprised adventurers,
"ony o' ye able tae swing a big ol' hammer?"

With a smirk on her face, Gven stands up from a stool and makes her way over to the
hatch. The Cap'n smiles, "Aye, ye'll dae fine, A'm sure o' it!"

The rest of the group follows Gven down the hatch, into the confines of the ship's inner
sanctum. They see all sorts of gadgets, gears, and knobs; things they've never seen on
a sailing vessel before. Mond, in particular, is fascinated by what he sees, mumbling to
himself as he traces pipes to fixtures and gauges to knobs.

Cap'n Don hands Gven a large hammer, larger than most full-grown humans could lift with
one hand, and points at a metal pipe. "Richt there, gie 'er a guid ol' smackering!" Gven
lifts the long-handled hammer with both hands, swings back as far as she's able, given the
limited space in the hold, and smacks the shit out of the pipe right where the captain told
her to. "Again!" Another solid hit. "Hmm, yin mair oughta dae it." With a slight grunt,
Gven gives the pipe one more solid whack with the big hammer. They hear a loud "ka-thunk,"
which is only a second's warning before the confined room is suddenly filled with thick,
dark fumes from an exhaust pipe somewhere in the mix of machinery.

As the dust settles, Cap'n Don excitedly yells—because he's pretty hard of hearing at this
point in the repair process—to no one in particular, "that's it! Ye did it, ye wonderfully
ginormous barbarian ship fix'r!" The group looks at each other and realizes they are now
sufficiently camoflauged for visiting the Weigh Anchor.

A few hours later, close to 10 PM—leaving Mond on the Iron Vulture, watching from the crow's
nest—Dolor, Bilwin, Gven, and Grindlefoot walk over to the
Weigh Anchor for a beer, and to discreetly surveil the ship and warehouse. Entering the
establishment, they discover it to be long and narrow, barely wide enough to house the bar
and stools that run its length. A very large bartender looms behind the empty counter,
wearing tight leather pants and a sleeveless shirt made of fish net.
They're wiping a dirty rag across the parts of the bar they can reach. The
[half-ogre](https://forgottenrealms.fandom.com/wiki/Half-ogre) barely looks up at them,
merely grunting at their presence while continuing to lift the dirty rag a few feet off
the bartop, slamming it down, sliding it to the side, and repeating the process in the
other direction. It's surprisingly rhythmic, like a metronome for drinking.

They order beers and set themselves up outside the front door, where they have a decent
view of the ship and warehouse front door. The beer is weak, but not horrible. Grindlefoot
gets excited, holding a mug larger than his whole arm, "they served me a whole pint!"

An hour later, the light has dimmed and those with [darkvision](https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/basic-rules/monsters#Darkvision)
are able to clearly see the area between the ship and the warehouse, due to the lack of
streetlamps. They notice a small procession of 6-8 figures carrying large crates from
the ship to the warehouse, which they repeat a few times before remaining in the warehouse.
Most of the crew appeared to be standard guards or laborers, wearing leather armor
and carrying small weapons. Two of them were dressed differently, wearing cowls.
The two spoke with the warehouse guards for a short time before entering the warehouse
behind the laborers. There were no crates or merchandise loaded on to the ship from the
warehouse, only unloaded from the ship.

Watching for another 45 minutes, they don't see any more movement between the ship and
warehouse. The figures they witnessed are still in the warehouse, but they can't tell
what's happening inside. Dolor and Grindlefoot, who is slightly drunk from his full pint,
amble back to the Iron Vulture to check in with Mond. His reports match what they saw
from the Weigh Anchor. Leaving the ship, they ask Mond to keep an eye on things
while the others speak with Tella, at the Broken Spy Glass.

Waiting for Dolor and Grindlefoot to return, Bilwin and Gven go inside the Weigh Anchor
to settle up with the barkeep, Boog. Obviously, the dock workers sitting at the bar are
used to the half-ogre's methodical way of cleaning the bartop. They unconsciously raise
their smeared pints of beer after each thump of the washrag hitting the counter to avoid
the rough swipe that follows.

With the tab settled and the four together again, they decide to investigate the perimeter
of the warehouse as they leave the pub. Perhaps they'll find an easy way inside under the
cover of darkness, but alas, no such luck. Although, Dolor hears murmering inside the
building, it's in a rhythmic lilting tone.

The group reaches the Broken Spy Glass about 1 AM, open the door to see Tella behind the
bar, and a few patrons slouching over their half-empty pints.

"Never mind them," Tella says as he gestures at the others in the inn. "They'll never
remember where they were or when, let alone what we might have said during that elusive
time in their minds."

From their short discussion with Tella, who recruited them to help the Heart of the People,
they learn that the captain who braved the storm to make the delivery to Davanor was heard
to have told the harbormaster, "If you know how to read the weather, the
path is clear." Mysterious, yet it might point to some arcane assistance.

Tella doesn't know anything about Amonah, but will ask some of the city's librarians who
are friends or support the Heart of the People. Librarians know more than most people
think they do and are underutilized because of it.

<!-- em dash: — | kebyoard shortcut = Option + Shift + Dash (-) -->
<!-- https://oatcookies.neocities.org/dndmoney to convert copper, silver, gold, and more into CP -->
