---
title: "Chapter 3"
show_date: true
date: 2023-02-13T17:30:00-00:00
sessiondate: "February 13, 2023"
categories:
  - campaign
tags:
  - fight
  - tavern
  - wayside
---

The adventurers have defeated a small band of goblins and are being congratulated by Cindel, when
Dolor suddenly realizes that he's not wearing his armor—although, he is wearing pants and the others
are grateful for that. As Dolor dons his armor, Xantic exclaims "that's what this stuff is for!" and
pulls out a set of studded leather armor from his own pack.

The group heads back to Wayside for that drink promised by Cindel. When they reach town, their
curiosity gets the better of them and they decide to stop in at the Bargain Ben for a quick look.
It has a similar layout and inventory as other general stores they've frequented on their travels.
There are food supplies, both fresh produce and staples that will last much longer, a decent selection
of various tools, and assorted weird knickknacks. At the end of one aisle is a large translucent jar
with a gooey blob in clearish liquid and a sign that says "Do not feed without permission!"

Ben pauses from taking inventory to welcome the group to his store. Xantic, full of ideas and questions,
as usual, asks Ben if he has a gemstone. Being the second or third time the group has heard this
request, they ask Xantic why he needs it. Ben doesn't have one, but is also curious about what it
will be used for. Without providing many details, Xantic explains that he can use the gem to create
something that he thinks will lure out the chimera. Ben suggests that they use the chimera egg 
Grindlefoot is holding. The group has a collective moment of "d'oh, why didn't we think of that."

Being the inquisitive skeptic of the group, Xantic begins to question Ben about the Low Elves. How
long have they been around? Has anything odd happened since they arrived? What do the town people
think of the group? How do the Low Elves interact with others? It turns out that the band
hasn't been in town for too long, perhaps a few seasons, which is less than a year. The people
are fairly ambivalent to the group, because they don't cause trouble and have even helped out with
a few uncomfortable situations, like a wandering bug bear that caused a ruckus.

At this point in the conversation, Gven and Xantic realize that they're still suffering from minor
wounds from the battle with the goblins. Grindlefoot gives 10
[goodberries](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/goodberry) to Gven and Xantic casts healing on himself.
They both feel much better and are ready to enjoy the rest of their afternoon, drinking with Cindel.

The group decides to swing by Scibbles & Nibs to have a quick chat with Halodreth about the chimera's
egg they got from the goblins. The apothecary shop is closed up tight with a new sign on the door
that says "do not" which is placed immediately above the "enter" sign. They peer in the shop windows
to find it still and quiet, with Herbert nowhwere to be seen.

Finally, they make it to the Buzzin Bee, where Cindel exclaims "took ya long enough!" while nursing
an ale at the bar and chatting with Bonnie, the bartender. "Get my new friends a round, on me," she
says to Bonnie.

"Oh, and I suppose this is also going on your tab, eh?"

Cindel proclaims, "I'm good for it, you know I am!"

"Sure ya are, sure..." Bonnie replies with a distinct lack of conviction.

While enjoying their ale, Dolor asks Bonnie if she knows where Halodreth might be, because they
would like to buy a pot and see if he has any guidance for them about making the Chimera's Bane.
Cindel chimes in, "just mix it all together and be sure you do it away from folks, especially
thems with noses that work." After more back and forth, Bonnie offers them a spot out back to
build a campfire and an old cook pot for 1 gold piece, as long as they clean up the pot _really
well_ afterwards.

Later, after a few more drinks and a bit of food, Grindlefoot asks Bonnie and Cindel, "what's up
with that jar in Ben's shop that says 'do not feed!'" They laugh and Bonnie says, "You mean Steve?
That's Ben's sourdough starter and it'll get huge fast if you feed it more than just a touch."

Finally, they move towards the backdoor to make the Chimera's Bane and Cindel says "you folk
did well out there against the goblins, but it was still a good thing I came along when I did."
Gven and Dolor don't take too kindly to the statement and turn around to give her the _truth of
the matter_ when Bonnie speaks up and says "no trouble inside, get yer selves on out there
before I put ya there myself!"

Sure enough, after a short while, the brewing Chimera's Bane reeks horribly. Gven is sitting on
a log, waiting patiently, when a crow flies over and poops on her head. "Seriously?" she says
quietly to herself and throws up a quick prayer to Joli (jaa·lee), the God of Pooping Crows,
"thanks for the lesson in humility, now give it a rest, will ya, beautiful." The others giggle
at her misfortune. After a few hours, the concoction appears to be complete and the hour is
getting late, so the group calls it a night. They take turns watching throughout the night,
but it's quiet and uneventful.

Long rest....

While the group is having breakfast in the Buzzin Bee, Ben slams open the front door and
nervously screams "the chimera is back!" Xantic asks, "how do you know?" Ben says that there's
a long plume of smoke rising from his field and the chimera is the only reason that could be
happening. They quickly run out back and slather on the Chimera's Bane—complaining about the
stench—then follow Ben towards the fields and plume of smoke. Given the distinctly odiferous
nature of the balm, Dolor suggests that they approach from downwind.

As they approach the field from downwind, the sun is just creeping over the low tops of the
mountains to the East and they're able to see flames in the crops. Ben's unique plant has
a stalk similar to corn and large tobacco-like leaves that drape over themselves. Dolor notices
that the tops of the crops are moving in various directions, against the wind, meaning someone,
or something, is moving around in there. As they continue to approach, Dolor can see a
clearing in the field with two lit torches by a wagon, three silhouettes gathering
plants, and Cindel directing them to put the plants into the wagon.

At Gven's suggestion, the adventurers split up to hide their numbers and gain a tactical
advantage. Xantic and Dolor flank Cindel and the others, presumably the Low Elves, hidden
from their view in the tall plants of the field. While Gven, Grindlefoot, and Ben approach
Cindel and the clearing directly.

As they come into view, Ben yells out "how could you, Cindel? Why are you stealing from me?"

Cindel is caught by surprise and, unlike her usual confident demeanor, appears uncertain
with her response. "It's...it's not what it seems! We're helping to save your crops. You know,
before the chimera comes and burns them all to the ground." Ben and the adventurers discover
that Cindel is with Preet and Grak, along with two others from the Low Elves they don't know.

"If that's the case, then why didn't you come get me first? I could have helped you. Besides,
where are you planning to take all of my crops?"

"Um, to the, um, your storage warehouse. Where else would we be taking them. I'm doing this
for you! To save your crops. We're not stealing them!"

Using her insight, Gven can tell that Cindel is lying. "We'll give you one chance, Cindel, and
one chance only. Leave the field now and we won't follow you or take any action against you
and the Low Elves. You have my word."

Cindel continues to look uncertain, this doesn't seem to be coming easy for her, but she stands
her ground and refuses to leave. Ben asks her why she resorted to subterfuge and stealing.
Apparently, she discovered that the plant is a stimulant. It makes her move faster, respond
quicker, and think of strategy more easily. She yells out, "I need this to be better! We're
not leaving!"

Gven accepts Cindel's answer with a resigned "alrighty then." Seeing no other option, the barbarian
invokes her [rage](https://www.thegamer.com/dungeons-dragons-dnd-barbarian-rage-explained-guide/)
and aggressively attacks Cindel with her greatsword, slashing deeply across her midsection.

## Fight choreography

Hidden in the field of crops, Xantic flings a knife at one of the Low Elves and it embeds itself
into the recipient's arm. Grak casts [Charm](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/charm-person) at
Gven, but she is deep in a rage and shrugs it off.

Grindlefoot casts [Charm](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/charm-person) at Grak, but the pantless
goblin shakes his head and smiles.

Magnus, a nobleman and one of the unnamed Low Elves, moves towards Xantic, who revealed
his position with his thrown knife.

Cabanna, a tiefling and the remaining Low Elf, attacks Gven with their scimitar, barely scratching
her shin. Preet says "terribly sorry old chap, ode to brotherhood and all that" as he attacks Gven
with his rapier, poking her in the shoulder and drawing a tiny amount of blood. She smiles at both of
them, obviously enjoying the battle more than she's hurting from the small wounds.

Dolor fires an arrow at each Grak and Cindel but misses them both. Cindel is too close to the melle
for her bow and attacks Gven with her sword. Yet another small prick to the grinning barbarian.

Meanwhile, Ben is horribly upset at the turn of events. He jumps into the middle of the fighting,
grabs Cindel's leg, and casts a healing spell. She suddenly feels and looks rejuvenated. 

Astonished by Ben's action, Gven yells "stop helping, Ben!" She attacks Cindel
with her greatsword, nearly severing the elf's arm at the elbow.

From the field, Xantic casts [Frostbite](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/frostbite) on his crossbow
and fires a bolt at Magnus, killing him instantly. Grak sees this and jumps to his friend's side, casting
[Cure Wounds](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/cure-wounds) on the dead body. Suddenly revived, Magnus
looks around in a slightly confused manner, "thanks, old chap!"

Grindlefoot sees that Gven is starting to hurt and casts [Cure Wounds](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/cure-wounds),
and one of the small wounds under her leather armor closes up.

Feeling much more alive, Magnus joins Cabanna, the tiefling, in attacking Gven, but she's able to
dodge their rapier and sword. Thinking he might have an advantage, Preet casts
[Charm](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/charm-person) at Gven again, and she shrugs it off again.

From a short distance, Dolor fires two arrows at Magnus, killing him again. "And stay dead!"

Badly wounded, Cindel disengages from the group and runs to the other side of the wagon while
pulling out her bow.
    
<!-- Round 1 -->
<!-- Step-by-step
*   Gven invokes her [barbarian rage](https://www.thegamer.com/dungeons-dragons-dnd-barbarian-rage-explained-guide/)
    and hits Cindel with her greatsword, causing 18 damage.
*   Hidden in the field, Xantic hits one of the unnamed Low Elves for 4 damage.
*   Grak casts [Charm](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/charm-person) at Gven, but she is deep
    in a rage and shrugs it off.
*   Grindlefoot casts [Charm](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/charm-person) at Grak, but it
    fails.
*   Magnus, a nobleman and one of the unnamed Low Elves, moves towards Xantic, who revealed
    his position.
*   Cabanna, a tiefling and the remaining Low Elf, attacks Gven with their scimitar, causing
    3 damage.
*   Preet says "terribly sorry old chap, ode to brotherhood and all that" as he attacks Gven
    with his rapier and causes 3 damage.
*   Dolor fires an arrow at Grak and Cindel but misses them both.
*   Cindel is too close for her bow and attacks Gven with her sword, causing 3 damage.
*   Ben is horribly upset and jumps into the middle of the fighting, grabs Cindel's leg,
    and casts a healing spell. She suddenly feels and looks rejuvenated.
-->

<!-- Round 2 -->
<!-- Step-by-step
*   Gven is astonished by Ben's action and yells "stop helping, Ben!" She attacks Cindel
    with her greatsword, causing another 18 damage.
*   Xantic casts [Frostbite](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/frostbite) on his crossbow
    and fires a bolt at Magnus, killing him instantly.
*   Grak casts [Cure Wounds](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/cure-wounds) on Magnus' dead
    body and revives him. Magnus looks around in a slightly confused manner, "thanks, old chap!"
*   Grindlefoot sees that Gven is starting to hurt and casts
    [Cure Wounds](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/cure-wounds), granting her 3 health.
*   Magnus, the revived nobleman, attacks Gven and misses.
*   Cabanna, the tiefling, attacks Gven and misses.
*   Preet casts [Charm](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/charm-person) at Gven again, and fails again.
*   Dolor fires two arrows at Magnus, killing him (again), and says "stay dead!"
*   Cindel, badly wounded, disengages from the group and runs to the other side of the wagon while
    pulling out her bow.
-->

Ben starts jumping up and down, shouting loudly "EVERYONE STOP FIGHTING RIGHT NOW! Stop it, I say!
This isn't what I want at all! Please, please listen to me and lets figure this out."

Everyone holds off on their next attack, waiting to hear what Ben is about to say. He opens
his mouth to speak and they all hear the loudest roar imagineable come out of his mouth. Ben
looks just as confused as everyone else, when suddenly fire explodes close to the wagon and the
chimera comes into view, flying low to the ground and screeching at all of them. Ben, the Low
Elves, and the Mixed Nuts scramble for safety around them.
