---
title: "Chapter 9"
show_date: true
date: 2023-05-22T17:00:00-00:00
sessiondate: "May 22, 2023"
categories:
  - campaign
tags:
  - fight
  - levelup
---

The adventurers find themselves standing in a dimly lit cavern, crude torches hanging loosely
in poorly made sconces that are part of the stone walls, situated in a semi-circular shape
around the altar. The human man chained to the altar looks on in astonishment as the group
cautiously enters the cavern. The goblin wearing the ornate vestments loudly proclaims, "You
have entered the inner sanctum and now you will be offerings to the Great Mouth!"

Fight choreography:

*   Goblin leader shoots silver fire from their hands at Gven and hits, causing 7 in fire
    damage and leaving her in flames.
*   Dolor aims his shortbow at the goblin leader and misses.
*   Gven takes another 6 in fire damage before dropping to the stone floor and smothering
    the flames covering a small portion of her body. She invokes her
    [barbarian rage](https://www.thegamer.com/dungeons-dragons-dnd-barbarian-rage-explained-guide/),
    jumps to her feet, and charges toward the goblin leader, about 30 feet away.
*   Grindlefoot, as a snake, sneaks toward the captive human for a closer look at the rusty
    chains binding him to the altar and senses his fear and concern.
*   Xantic directs his Flamethrower [Eldritch Cannon](http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/artificer:artillerist#toc2)
    at a goblin, causing 5 damage.
    *   He then fires a crossbow bolt at another goblin, killing it instantly.
*   Goblin leader yells out, "Sacrilege!" And with a legendary action says, "To the altar!",
    calling more goblins close by but unseen to participate in the battle.
*   The goblin attacked by Xantic's flame-throwing Eldritch Cannon, returns the attack, swinging
    its rusty shortsword at the cannon for 8 damage.
*   A goblin runs up next to the goblin leader, draws its scimitar, and misses Dolor with its swing.
*   Goblin leader grabs the shoulder of a goblin close to it and yells, "blessing of the Open Mouth!"
    The goblin's body shifts and transforms into a [bugbear](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/16817-bugbear).
*   _Out of the connecting tunnels, two more goblins run into the cavern._
*   Dolor attacks the closest goblin with his shortsword and misses.
*   Gven swigs a healing potion, regaining 10 health, and then attacks the goblin leader
    with her longsword, causing 10 damage.
*   _Suddenly, a different goblin is standing where goblin leader stood._
*   Grindlefoot, as a snake, leaps at the goblin who attacked Dolor and grapples them for
    8 damage, while also containing them in a hold and causing disadvantage.
*   A streak of silver fire barely misses Dolor, coming from the back of the cave where the
    two other goblins recently entered.
*   Xantic fires his crossbow at a goblin, causing 10 damage and killing it.
    *   The Flamethrower Eldritch Cannon fires at another goblin, causing 3 damage and killing it.
*   _The adventurers notice that the goblin leader switched places with one of the goblins
    who responded to their leader's call and is now in the back of the room._
*   The goblin tied up by Grindlefoot in snake form tries and fails to break free.
*   Bugbear attacks Gven with its claws, causing 8 damage.
*   A goblin in the back of the room fires an arrow from its shortbow at Xantic and misses.
*   Goblin leader exclaims, "for the Great Mouth" and makes a gesture with its hands. Suddenly,
    the goblin ensared by Grindlefoot swells up and explodes into pieces, causing Grindlefoot
    5 in fire damage.
*   Dolor attacks the goblin-turned-bugbear (with advantage because of being within 5 feet of
    Gven while she is raging) for 5 damage and 5 in sneak attack damage with his shortsword.
*   Gven also attacks the bugbear with her longsword, causing 11 damage, and then quickly swigs
    a healing potion, regaining another 10 health.
*   Grindlefoot, still in snake form, slithers over to the other goblin and attempts to grapple
    them, but misses.
*   Xantic fires a crossbow bolt at the goblin leader and misses.
    *   The Flamethrower Eldritch Cannon flames a goblin for 11 damage, killing it instantly.
*   _Only the bugbear and goblin leader remain standing and alive._
*   Bugbear attempts to swipe Gven with its claws and misses.
*   Goblin leader fires a bolt of silver fire at Xantic and misses.
*   Dolor attacks the bugbear with his shortsword, connecting for 5 damage and 10 in sneak
    attack damage, killing it.
*   Grindlefoot slithers towards the goblin leader and grapples them, causing 8 damage.
*   Reacting to Grindlefoot's attack, the goblin leader tries to hit Grindlefoot with their
    silver fire and misses.
*   Xantic tries to free the human by casting [Frostbite](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/frostbite)
    on the chain, but it doesn't quite break. Xantic then has McGillicutty cast
    [Force Blast](https://www.5esrd.com/spellcasting/3pp-spells/spells-onyx-path-publishing/force-blast/)
    on the chain and it completely blows apart into small bits of rusty metal that fly everywhere.
    McGillicutty starts happy-dancing.
*   Goblin leader sees that they're alone now, facing four armed and capable warriors, especially
    the murderous gnome artificer. They scream, "Ever will I serve you!" and its body begins to puff up,
    expanding its hideous features to comical proportions before exploding into flaming bits of
    flesh that impact the two closest, Gven and Grindlefoot. Gven takes 15 damage and Grindlefoot
    is suddenly returned to his halfling form, takes 7 damage, and exclaims "Did you all see that?
    That was awesome!"





   
_The adventurers advance to level 4._


Still regaining their breath from the recent skirmish with the four goblins, the adventurers
investigate the chamber before proceeding further inward. It's roughly forty feet by forty feet
and seems to be of natural origin, better at preventing wayward animals than armed foes from
entering the goblin's caves. While investigating the chamber, Grindlefoot ponders out loud,
"why do frogs have [darkvision](https://roleplayersrespite.com/darkvision-5e)?" Only silence
answers.

The group looks to the opposite end of the cavern from where they entered and see that the tunnel
continues onward. Xantic sends McGillicutty to explore ahead of them, looking out for danger
of any sort. The tunnels appear to become more natural, smaller in width and height, and less
like they were shaped by tools. At some exceptionally short points, Gven and Dolor are forced to
crawl in order to continue forward. Eventually, the tunnel opens up enough for the group to
stand up and stretch their limbs, although they must continue walking single file.

Gven is following behind McGillicutty and notices the floor has a peculiar feeling to it, even
though McGillicutty hasn't reported anything amiss. Suddenly, she falls into a pit that had a
thin covering over it, obscuring it from view. Feeling more embarrassed than hurt, Gven takes
2 damage from the ten foot drop and then crawls up the far side, ten feet away from where she
fell.

The remaining group members snicker at her failure to detect or navigate the naturally formed
pit. As though Joli (jaa·lee), the God of Pooping Crows, is looking down upon them at that
very moment, each of the others also fall into the pit—even while knowing it's there—with
Xantic taking 4 damage, Grindlefoot 3, and Dolor 3. McGillicutty shrugs their tiny shoulders
and half-grins at the others inability to navigate the pit as easily as McGillicutty had.

Continuing onward, the group encounters another cavern that opens up from the tunnel. Dolor
sneaks up to the opening and can see two [bugbears](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/16817-bugbear)
on the far side of the cave. The adventurers ready their weapons and begin sneaking towards
the bugbears, hoping that they're sleeping or unaware. They cover 30 feet, about halfway across
the cave, when Xantic and Dolor trip over the tiniest of cracks in the floor, alerting
the bugbears to their presence. One of them sounds the alarm, clearly alerting anyone or thing
in the system of tunnels.

Dolor shrugs his shoulders and says "Oh well, here we go."

Fight choreography:
*   Dolor misses with his shortbow.
*   Xantic fires his Force Ballista [Eldritch Cannon](http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/artificer:artillerist#toc2)
    and misses.
    *   He then fires [Frostbite](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/frostbite) and misses.
*   A bugbear attacks Gven with a spiked club, causing 8 damage.
*   The other bugbear attacks Dolor and misses.
*   Gven invokes her [barbarian rage](https://www.thegamer.com/dungeons-dragons-dnd-barbarian-rage-explained-guide/)
    and misses a bugbear with her longsword.
*   Grindlefoot sprints towards a bugbear and takes a large jump, flinging himself at
    the creature while turning into a restrictor snake...and misses.
*   Dolor is able to perform a sneak attack with his shortsword for 10 damage.
*   Xantic fires the Eldritch Cannon at the bugbear in front of Dolor, causing 7 damage.
    *   He then attacks with his shortsword and misses.
*   A bugbear attacks and misses Gven.
*   The other bugbear attacks and misses Dolor.
*   Gven takes a wallop out of the first bugbear with her longsword, causing 23 damage and
    leaving it looking very wobbly.
*   Grindlefoot, recovered from his missed flying snake attack, slithers over to the
    bugbear by Dolor and grapples it around the neck, causing 5 damage and killing it.
*   Dolor attacks the final bugbear with his shortsword, quickly giving it the death
    that fate has dealed it this day.

Although the alarm has been rung, the group takes a few minutes to investigate the bugbears
and their surroundings. Looking at their sparse and dirty pieces of armor, Gven notices
a symbol, like an insignia, that is shaped like a yelling mouth. They recall that the four
goblins in the first cavern were wearing the same thing on their clothing. Dolor begins
to hear an uptick in the sounds coming from the inner tunnels, as though goblins, or something,
is responding to the alarm.

The adventurers continue on for about an hour, noticing that the tunnels seem to delve
lower and deeper into the ground. Finally, they reach a point where McGillicutty doesn't
return from their short exploration. Xantic can tell that they're still alive, yet
doesn't know why they haven't returned.

Grindlefoot, as a snake, moves ahead to scout and discover what's become of McGillicutty.
As the tunnel bends to the right, he can see McGillicutty standing still because he's
caught in a gargantuan web. The webs extend in every direction, encompassing all possible
paths through a very large cavern. Grindlefoot is able to wiggle McGillicutty free from
the sticky webs and they return to the group.

They decide to move forward and see what's involved with all the webbery, only to
discover that they're so thick and ubiquitous, that they can't move past or through them.
They light a torch and throw it at the webs, hoping it will burn away enough for them
to move ahead, but it burns out after only going a few feet.

Xantic declares that he has an idea! He disassembles the Eldritch Cannon and creates
a flame thrower. Spewing a stream of fire tens of feet in every direction, he's able
to clear the area quickly and they move forward, discovering several goblin corpses.
After they've gone through half of the extensive cavern, suddenly a large screeching
comes from above them, somewhere up in the darkness that extends beyond their vision.
They're all thankful that they don't have to see—or fight—what's attached to that
horrendous sound.

The group finally makes it to the other side of the large cavern, having extinguished
all the webs, and enter a smaller chamber that's illuminated by torches. In the center
of the chamber, a stalagmite has been flattened and carved into an alter. Painted on
a wall close by, above the stalagmite alter, is a large version of the yelling mouth
symbol they saw earlier on the bugbears and goblins.

There are four goblins standing around the alter, all focused on a fifth one wearing
ornate yet very dirty vestments, obviously scavenged from somewhere. A human male
wearing raggedy clothes and an odd-looking, floppy hat, is tied to the alter and
looking scared.

The leader of the goblins, obvious pride in their power—and regalia—looks at the
adventurers and yells "Welcome! You shall now become one with the great mouth!"
