---
title: "Chapter 6"
show_date: true
date: 2023-03-27T17:00:00-00:00
sessiondate: "March 27, 2023"
categories:
  - campaign
tags:
  - history
  - tavern
---

During breakfast, the companions are able to get a closer look at Skeller. He's tall, at around
6'1", and dressed simply in comfortable travelling clothes. During the discussion, they learn
that he's been travelling westward, from Mirganor in the East, and hasn't encountered anything
odd. At least any more odd than he usually does. The townsfolk of Wayside, especially an elf named
Cindel, were eager to tell him the tale of the Chimera.

Skeller paused for a moment and sat thoughtfully, then said "I did buy some lovely flowers from
an amiable woman namded Prema. While I was in the Buzzin Bee, the townsfolk described the horrible
circumstances of her husband and daughter being lost in the woods. Yet, when I spoke with her, there
seemed to be more to her tale than the folk realized...or maybe let on. I got the impression they
were a bit embarrassed for not being able to do more to help poor Prema."

"According to Prema, her husband was the most loyal, dedicated husband and father she knew of in
their small village. She knew he wouldn't abandon her or put their daughter in danger without
something serious having happened. He might not have been the best farmer, bless his heart, but
he was a good hunter and knew how to traverse the wilds. He never would have gotten lost, especially
in these lands that he knew so well. She's of the mind that they ventured across the river and the
goblins got 'em. She hopes that they're still alive, cuz those pesky goblins are liars and thieves,
but they're usually not murderers."

The companions looked at each other in turn, realizing that they might not be quite ready to leave
the Wayside area.

Then Dolor turned the subject to another area of interest, especially to Gven. "Skeller, have you
any news of Elsemar? We're headed that way, looking for a friend of ours." He then looks over
to Gven, prompting her to share as much information as she's ready. She goes on to describe how her
brother, Torp, left for his _Coming Out_ eight years ago and hasn't been heard from since, which
is extremely unusual. They ran into a rider from the Pride and Comfort in Wayside, who happened
to see a half-orc that looked eerily similar to Gven in Elsemar.

After describing the building that the Pride and Comfort rider told her about, Skeller
paused and rubbed his chin in that way they'd quickly come to see him display when he's
contemplating his next words carefully.

"I know of that building. They don't really care for my type, or many other types that're
different from themselves, if you know what I'm meanin. It's a law firm run by a muckety-muck
who goes by the name of Davinor. He does a lot of work on the, how should I put it, seedier side
of the law. If your brother was in there and givin off the unhappy vibe that P&C rider told ya,
then my guess is that he weren't there for any reason to his own benefit."

The adventurers express their gratitude to Skeller, especially Gven, and decide to move on
quickly towards Elsemar. The city is still 5-6 long days of walking away. But they all need
breakfast and Xantic is excitedly cooking up his special "garbage omelet." It actually tastes
quite good, although no one asks about the specific ingredients.

Skeller tells them that he'll remain in that spot for a bit of time. That's the way of their
people, the tinkerers. There's always a reason to stop and, eventually, a reason to get going
again. He'll stay here for a bit longer to see who else might need his wares or services. Word
travels quickly when a tinkerer is around and he trusts it to guide him, as do all tinkerers.
Setting up camp around his wagon, he establishes a perimiter of warning sticks with tiny bells
on them, all attached by string. Dolor elicits a smile in fond memory of doing this while
travelling with his own family when he was younger.

The adventurers say their farewells to Skeller and head eastward, towards Elsemar and whatever
situation they might find Gven's brother inhabiting. As they walk, Grindlefoot and Gven ask
Dolor about the 'big city' of Elsemar. They've both only experienced small villages, farming
communities, and tribes roving across the grasslands.

As Dolor describes Elsemar to the group, he tells them about his past. His parents are
tinkerers of great renown for their jewelry and watchmaking, often fulfilling customized
orders for wealthy people in Elsemar, some of whom have more money than sense. As pacifists,
like most tinkerers, his parents would sometimes find themselves the victims of theft. Not
in the normal sense of being robbed at sword-point, rather customers refusing to make payment
for the very services they had requested.

While his parents were of the mind to let bygones be bygones and move on with life, Dolor
had different ideas. He would usually find stealthy ways into their homes to take the
requisite payment in whatever way was the most accessible. Of course, he never took more
than they were owed, hence his services weren't considered illegal, at least by him. Besides,
these sorts of customers were hesitant to report anything to the authorities, as they usually
had other, bigger concerns if the authorities were involved. Fortunately, Dolor excelled at
this and none of the customers were able to track his actions back to his parents. Justice
wears many faces.

As they're walking eastward along the Ha-derech, Dolor notices an object in the middle of
the road up ahead, about 50-60 feet from them and just before a small bridge over a creek.
Xantic immediately suggests that they play it safe and blow it up with his brand new
[eldritch cannon](http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/artificer:artillerist#toc2), which is what he
had wanted that large gem for all this time they've been travelling together. The rest of
the adventurers look in amazement at the cannon and then quickly say "no, no, no, let's
investigate first!"

Xantic runs up to the small object to get a closer look while the rest of the group walks
a little more slowly, leaving Xantic twenty feet in front of them. As soon as he gets within
touching distance of it, Xantic recognizes it as a child's dolly that is fairly worn and
was probably quite loved by its young owner. When he goes to pick it up, the doll moves
across the ground and Xantic jumps back in surprise, points his eldritch cannon at it,
and instinctively fires. The poor toy didn't have a chance and is eviscerated, body parts and
clothing flying in every direction. Just then, six goblins, one of them noticeably larger
than the others, run out from underneath the bridge and attack the companions.

Fight choreography:
*   Grindlefoot turns invisible and moves to flank the goblins.
*   Dolor attacks with his rapier, causing 3 damage.
*   One of the smaller goblins attacks Dolor with a rusty sword, causing 6 damage.
*   Dolor quickly reacts with [Hellish Rebuke](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/hellish-rebuke),
    causing 6 in fire damage to the goblin.
*   A goblin attacks Dolor with a long knife, causing 8 damage.
*   A goblin attacks Xantic and misses.
*   A goblin attacks Xantic with a short sword, causing 8 damage.
*   A goblin attacks Gven and misses.
*   The larger goblin attacks Gven with a sword, causing 6 damage.
*   Xantic fires the eldritch cannonat the furthest goblin and misses.
*   Xantic casts [Frostbite](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/frostbite) at a goblin,
    causing 6 damage and freezing it from its next action.
*   Gven enters into her [barbarian rage](https://www.dndbeyond.com/classes/barbarian#Rage-51)
    and cleaves a goblin in half with her longsword, killing it instantly.
*   Grindlefoot becomes visible and casts [Thunderwave](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/thunderwave)
    at two goblins standing away from the group, to avoid impacting his compatriots. One goblin
    takes 4 damage and the other is killed instantly. After casting, Grindlefoot moves
    backward, giving himself room to attack remotely.
*   Dolor moves backwards thirty feet, swigs a healing potion, and misses a goblin with his shortbow.
*   A goblin attacks Gven with its long knife and misses twice. Gven says "boo!" and it jumps out of her reach.
*   A goblin attacks Grindlefoot with its sword, causing 6 damage.
*   The goblin Xantic froze, recovers their ability to move and attacks Xantic with their long knife, missing widely.
*   A goblin attacks Gven and misses.
*   Xantic, inspired by Gven's prowess and attitude in combat, swings his short sword
    across the neck of a goblin, killing it instantly, but not quite decapitating it.
    Xantic takes a few more halfhearted swings at the goblin's stringy neck and then
    shrugs his shoulders, but with a big smile on his face.
*   Xantic fires the eldritch cannon at another goblin and misses.
*   Gven misses a goblin, swinging her sword wildly, and Xantic gives her a supportive "you can do it" look.
*   Grindlefoot, now inspired by Xantic's almost-but-not-quite-beheading, swings his staff at a goblin, killing it.
*   Dolor takes a shot at the large goblin with his shortbow and misses.
*   The big goblin attacks Gven with its sword, causing 7 damage (only takes half while raging).
*   A goblin attacks Gven with its long knife, causing 8 damage (only takes half while raging).
*   Xantic misses a goblin with his eldritch cannon and casts [Cure Wounds](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/cure-wounds)
    on Gven, restoring 6 health.
*   Gven has lost her groove and misses a goblin with her longsword.
*   Grindlefoot casts [Healing Word](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/healing-word) on Gven, restoring 4 health,
    and then swings his staff at a goblin, missing them entirely.
*   Dolor fires an arrow at the large goblin, barely missing.
*   The big goblin attacks Gven with its sword again, missing on both attempts.
*   A goblin attacks Gven, missing widely.
*   Xantic attacks a goblin with his staff, connecting for 4 damage, and then fires the
    eldritch cannon at another goblin, causing 9 damage.
*   Gven attacks the big goblin, missing once again and letting lose a string of expletives that make Grindlefoot blush.
*   Grindlefoot, not letting his embarrassment at Gven's words hold him back, hits the big goblin
    with his staff, causing 8 damage.
*   Dolor sets an arrow in his shortbow, takes a deep breath, and aims at the large goblin's
    bulbous head. The arrow strikes the monster right between the slightly crooked eyes and the
    lifeless body slowly crumples to the dirt road. Still holding his pose after releasing the
    deadly arrow, Dolor quietly says "huzzah!" The adventurers all smile and relax themselves,
    taking in the carnage around them.

After taking care of the pesky goblins, the group investigates the area and tries to determine what
they can. Dolor searches the goblin bodies, finding nothing of value or interest, then discovers
a wooden box underneath the bridge. Opening the box, they find 10 gold pieces, 20 silver pieces,
a spyglass, a gold ring, and a feathery hat. Grindlefoot excitedly says "my quest is complete!" and
puts the hat on his head. Xantic turns to look and adds "that hat is so much you!"

Continuing his investigation, Dolor inspects the remains of the child's doll and recognizes the
pattern of the dress fabric—it's the same as Prema's dress. Turning his gaze to the wooded area
alongside the road, he notices a path, almost a trail, heading off into the woods. Grindlefoot
changes into a wolf and tracks the doll's scent to the trailhead. The group agrees that the
coincidence is too much to ignore and decides to follow the path, hoping to find Prema's husband
and daughter alive.

Short rest....
