---
title: "Chapter 21"
show_date: true
date: 2023-11-02T17:00:00-00:00
sessiondate: "November 2, 2023"
modified: 2023-11-02
categories:
  - campaign
tags:
  - fight
---

Leaving Grinder's Mill, the adventurers head back to Food Alley and Waffle Wizards
to find out if they have anything to do with the odd goings-ons with the newer
shops in the alley.

Along the way, they stop by Dolly's Donuts to drop off a bag of non-enchanted flour
that Grinder had given them. There's a sign on the front door that reads, "Temporarily
closed due to living donuts." Fred is excited to have flour that he can actually use.
At least they think he's excited, primarily based on the unusual half-smile.

Grindlefoot asks Dolly if she knows Corinne at Waffle Wizard. "Sure, but not very well.
She's a bit greasy, if you know what I mean."

It doesn't take them long to reach the stone building designed to look like a castle,
albeit a much smaller version than the real thing. The stonework, doors, and windows
appear a tad rundown, as though regular maintenance is lower on the to-do list than
other items. The sign above the door is quite large and made up of individual tiles
for each letter in the name, that come together into the shape of a waffle. WAFFLE
WIZARDS is spelled out in very large, block-style, black letters, with each one on
a bright yellow background and . If any of the group had previously been to a Waffle
Wizzard before, they would have known that these signs are an iconic sighting
throughout Eritz.

They enter through the front door and female [aarakocra](https://www.dndbeyond.com/races/4-aarakocra)
with bright pink feathers greets them in a nasally, slow drone. "Welcome to Waffle
Wizard, where everything is magical. I'm Flo and I'll be helping you today, sugar.
Let's get you seated." She takes them to a table and gives a slow rundown of the
menu.

Gven notices a goblin cleaning a table with a distinct lack of effort. She walks over
to the table and plops the sack of enchanted flour on the table. "I think this is yours,"
then walks back to her group's table. The goblin rolls its eyes and starts to say
something, but then thinks otherwise and picks up the sack, lugging it to the kitchen.

Mond orders the woefuls, the one selection that Flo warned them about. After a few
bites, he suddenly gets very sad. Grindlefoot notices, "what does it taste like?"
Mond quietly says, "regret. I have to commend the chef on this!" He makes his way
to the kitchen and finds a [bugbear](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/16817-bugbear)
wearing a hairnet flipping fried eggs on the stove top. The cook grunts in response
to Mond and doesn't seem to care about any accolades.

Back at the table, Gven asks Flo if Corinne is around. "Corinne, honey, these folks
want to chat with you." Turning back to the group, "anything else I can get ya,
sweetie?" The group shakes their heads no and Flo returns to the hostess stand,
leans over and props her head on her hand to watch the ensuing confrontation.



<!-- em dash: — | kebyoard shortcut = Option + Shift + Dash (-) -->
<!-- https://oatcookies.neocities.org/dndmoney to convert copper, silver, gold, and more into CP -->
