---
title: "Chapter 10"
show_date: true
date: 2023-06-06T17:00:00-00:00
sessiondate: "June 6, 2023"
categories:
  - campaign
tags:
  - fight
---

As the morning light begins to illuminate the small clearing through the densely packed
forest around them, the adventurers wake, feeling well rested and energized. Their
shared experiences are creating a bond and allowing them to grow stronger as a team.

Elar is already awake, and upon further examination they can tell that he hasn't slept
at all during the night. As they begin to talk with him, Elar shares that he is upset
with himself for not being able to escape and save Vera earlier, while he was being held
captive by the goblins. The group consoles him and, finally, Gven says "what's done is
done and now's the time for action. Let's go get her."

As they pack up their campsite, careful to leave it as pristine as they found it for
Lyra Swiftarrow, Elar shares what he knows about the hill giant, also known as the Great
Mouth. The hill giant lives up the mountain, above the treeline, in a protected area
that appers to have been created by an avalanche, some time in the past. Vera would
sit on the arm of his haphazzardly pieced together stone throne while the goblins visited
with their offerings. Otherwise, she was "kept" in a small shelf-like area that offered
her some protection from the weather.

The group returns to the cave entrance, so that Elar can get his bearings and take
them up the mountain, to save Vera from the hill giant.

During their trek through the forest, Grindlefoot casts
[Pass without Trace](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/pass-without-trace), allowing
them to move silently and without disturbing their surroundings. Like most folk in
Eritz, Elar is suspicious of anything that seems like magic and curiously notices
their tracks seeming to disappear behind them. When they reach the treeline, the
ground becomes more barren, with small boulders and low-lying shrubs sparsely populating
the area.

As they stand in the cover of the trees, the group can see a large collection of rocks
and boulders about 400 feet up the mountain. Elar confirms that area as where the hill
giant lives and is holding Vera hostage. They can barely make out a large boulder
that is split into two large pieces, likely during the avalanche, that have been
positioned to create a pseudo-throne. Other large boulders have been placed as
arms to the giant-sized chair, providing a perch for Vera while the Great Mouth
is holding court. The large seat is currently empty.

They can see a well-used path from the treeline to the giant's sanctuary and Elar
confirms it is the approach used by the goblins. With his keen vision, Dolor spies
a smaller, less-worn, winding path off to the side that appears to approach the giant's
dwelling from a different direction. The adventurers decide to follow the less-worn
path, attempting to be stealthy in their approach and rescue Vera with the least
amount of resistance.

Gven leads the way up the winding trail, followed by Xantic, McGillicutty, Elar,
and Grindlefoot, with Dolor bringing up the end of the line. Because it's used much
less, the trail is covered with loose rocks and dirt. Halfway up the switchback
path, Gven loses her footing and slides all the way down the mountain side, disturbing
the rocks and creating more noise than they'd hoped to. She embarrassingly lands at
the bottom of the hill, then they hear a loud groan, similar to a yawn, coming
from the rocks above them, where the path ends at the crest of the hillside.

While Elar is distracted, the adventurers agree that Grindlefoot should shift
into a rat and explore what lays beyond the crest. When he realizes Grindlefoot
is no longer among the group, Elar asks and Gven says "he's, umm, taking a dump
behind that boulder." Several minutes later, Grindlefoot emerges from behind the
boulder, as himself.

Gven takes Elar a ways away from the others, looks him in the eyes and commands,
"look me in the eyes!" Elar, suddenly afraid of the towering half-orc, turns toward
Gven slowly, looks into her face, and then begins to look away. "Don't look anywhere
else, only into my eyes," Gven says emphatically. Elar, now even more frightened,
straightens up his gaze and focuses on her eyes.

"Are you ready for this, Elar? We don't know what we're going to encounter up there
and you need to be ready for anything, to help Vera escape. Can you do that?"

"Umm, yeah, um, I think so. I mean, yes. Yes, I can." 
 
"Good, because we need you in order to pull this off."

During their chat, Grindlefoot briefs the rest of the group with his findings.
The Great Mouth is a hill giant, as Elar thought, and is now awake, thanks to
Gven's unfortunate and noisy slide down the hillside. It's a bowl-shaped area
that has walls around it with some natural caves interspersed, one that's large
enough for the giant to sleep in. He saw the giant retrieve Vera from one of
the smaller caves in the walls, set up 10-12 feet from the ground. The large
creature delicately set Vera on the ground in front of him and with his hand,
made a small 'boop' action on her head. That 'activated' her and she began
walking around like a wind-up doll while he giggled loudly. After a few seconds
of this, he gently 'booped' her on the head again, she became still, and he
lifted her back up to her ledge.

The group decides to have Grindlefoot distract the hill giant and draw it
towards the large chair, which is around a corner from the bowl-shaped living
quarters. While he distracts the creature, Gven and Elar will rush, as quietly
as possible, over to Vera and help her get down from the ledge, then esacape.
Dolor, Xantic, and McGillicutty will keep an eye on the giant so they can
warn Gven of its return.

Grindlefoot moves behind the boulder again and Elar asks, "where's he going?"
Dolor says, "I think Xantic's dinner is catching up with him, he's pooping
again." Elar gives a bit of a disgusted grimace, but says nothing more.

Grindlefoot quickly, yet quietly, walks around the hillside to the area where
the giant's chair is located. At the entrance to the area, he casts
[Thunderwave](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/thunderwave), quickly shifts
into a giant goat, and brays as loud as he can to get the hill giant's attention.

Meanwhile, the others have crept up to the crest of the hill, and looking
down into the giant's bowl, they see it look quizzically towards the area
where it's chair resides. It stands up and heads toward the sound, surprising
the group with its nimbleness and speed. Dolor and Xantic move along the side
of the bowl in the same direction as the giant, keeping an eye on it.
Gven and Elar quickly walk-slide down the hillside into the bowl and over to
the ledge where Vera is motionless.

Loud enough for Vera to hear, yet as quietly as possible so as not to alert
the giant, Elar calls up to her. "Vera, sweetie! We're here to rescue you.
I need to you to get ready for us!" Vera is surprised to hear her father's
voice and says "Daddy, is that you? Where...what...why are you here?"

"To rescue you. Now get ready." Gven kneels down, allowing Elar to get on
her shoulders, and then she stands up so that Elar can just barely reach
Vera. She jumps into his arms and Gven kneels down again, so that Elar
and Vera can stand on the ground. "Now, go now, get out of here, back the
way we came," Gven says to Elar.





Behind the boulder, Grindlefoot shifts into a giant goat and quickly walks
around the hillside to the

