---
title: "Chapter 11"
show_date: true
date: 2023-06-19T17:00:00-00:00
sessiondate: "June 19, 2023"
categories:
  - campaign
tags:
  - fight
  - tavern
---

The group of adventurers are standing in the treeline with Elar and Vera, just below the
open area leading up to the hill giant's domain. They can still just make out the large
beast swatting around in the tall mountain grass looking for the giant goat that mysteriously
disappeared.

While Elar is turned away, captivated by his daughter in the moment of their reunion,
Grindlefoot conjures some [goodberries](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/goodberry) for
the two recently rescued captives. They're both gaunt from lack of food and tired from
the stress, and the goodberries provide a visible benefit to their overall being in that
moment.

Knowing that they all need some rest after the encounter, the group heads back to Lyra's
grove. After a few hours of hiking, careful to leave as little of a trail as possible, they
reach their destination. They thoughtfully push their way through the blackberry bushes
that provide natural camouflage—and juicy snacks. Grindlefoot asks Elar and Vera to collect
some small firewood, allowing him to start a fire with his magic and not create an
uncomfortable situation. They spend the afternoon and evening in Lyra's grove, quietly
chatting and, mostly, allowing Elar and Vera to enjoy their reunion.

Long rest....

They wake the next morning, refreshed and eager to return to Wayside. Before leaving,
Xantic creates a talking stone for Lyra and leaves it in the grove with a message conveying
their thanks, along with a warning of the other goblin tribe that Vera mentioned regularly
visits the hill giant. Dolor leads them to Wayside, without any interruptions, and they
arrive mid-afternoon.

The townsfolk are surprised to see Elar and Vera, especially Preva, who is astounded and
overjoyed at the return of her family. Bonnie and Trill offer free drinks to the town's
new heroes and everyone slowly makes their way to the Buzzin Bee's common room.
Throughout the day and early evening, the news of Elar and Vera's safe return spreads
around town, out to the surrounding farms, and even those who usually keep to themselves
gather in and around the Buzzin Bee to celebrate the news—and heroes. 

The adventurers are inundated with drinks, food, and toasts to their bravery, which Cindel
seems to enjoy about as much as a shrill screech in the dark of night. Xantic notices
her aloof demeanor and, while offering to repair or improve any weapons the Low Elves have
that might need a little fixin, asks "why so long in the tooth?" She responds with
a noncommittal—and less than sincere—congratulations to their success.

Xantic turns to Grak, the goblin member of the Low Elves, and asks if he knows anything
about goblins worshiping a hill giant and calling it The Great Mouth. Grak responds with
disingenuous offense at the question, "oh, because I'm the token goblin, I must know why
every single other goblin in the world does what they do! We're not a monolith, you know!"
He goes on to say that goblins don't follow the rules about magic—its use is highly
frowned upon in Eritz—and will use it whenever they think it will benefit them. He hadn't
heard of any goblins worshiping a hill giant or of the Great Mouth, but says "of course,
I don't know every single goblin in Eritz!"

At that moment, Lyra Swiftarrow bursts through the front door of the Buzzin Bee, scans the
room to find the adventurers, quickly walks over to them, and says loudly, "what the
fuck did you all do?"

"All of a sudden, like a thunderstorm shooting over Mount Question, a flood of damnable
goblins are headed towards town. I stopped counting at 20 and high-tailed myself this way
to warn you and the townsfolk. They'll be here by midnight. Oh, and I kept hearing them
chant 'filgit, filgit, filgit!'"

Grak has a confused look on his face, "that means _find it_ in our language. Any idea what
they're looking for?"

Dolor appears concerned as he gazes towards Vera. Only minutes ago they were celebrating
her rescue from the hill giant, where it thought of her as its toy, a possession that
could be stolen. A toy it would apparently like to have back. He looks around, "it's almost
eight o'clock. We have some time to make plans, but not enough to really prepare. What do
y'all think?"

Xantic jumps up from his seat in excitement, "I've been training for this my whole life!
My people have been fighting oppressors for decades, nay, centuries, and I know exactly
how to handle this goblin horde!" He emphasizes his statement with a slam of his fist
on the table. Unfortunately, his enthusiasm and unwitting strength hits a loose board
in just the right spot and it flips up, the opposite end striking him in the temple and
knocking him unconscious. His eyes roll back in his head and he begins to slowly drift
downward, landing with a thud into his chair.

The group quickly comes up with a plan.

*   A rider from the Pride & Comfort is sitting with them in the inn and will ride out
    towards Mirganor to find help from the closest regiment of Hand of the Wand.
*   The non-combatant villagers, which is most of them, will hide in the basement of
    Bargain Ben's.
*   Lyra offers to head out into the woods and snipe as many goblins as she can. She'll
    send a flaming arrow high into the night sky when the goblins are getting close.
*   The Low Elves will guard the north side of Scribbles & Nibs and Preva's Flower Shop.
*   The adventurers will guard the north side of the Buzzin Bee. Cindel will join them
    since her bow will have the most impact from the higher vantage point of its second
    floor.
*   The group will set up rows of torches at 100 feet and 200 feet from the village, up to the
    tree line, so they can see the goblins coming in plenty of time to take action. They will
    also place whatever they can use as cover in the open field, such as barrels, chairs,
    benches, and mabye even an old wagon.
    
As they each begin to move in various directions to carry out their directives, Grak turns
to Cindel with a serious look on his face and says, "it's time for my pants."

<!-- em dash: — | kebyoard shortcut = Option + Shift + Dash (-) -->
