---
title: "Chapter 5"
show_date: true
date: 2023-03-13T17:30:00-00:00
sessiondate: "March 13, 2023"
categories:
  - campaign
tags:
  - history
  - tavern
---

The group of adventurers spends a week in Wayside, resting and relaxing, gaining new friends,
listening to tales in the Buzzin Bee's common room, and learning that Preet, from the Low Elves,
is much better at telling stories than he is at playing the lute—and his song lyrics and poetry
are still horrid. It's been an enjoyable time getting to know the townsfolk and building
relationships they'll miss while on the road.

One evening in particular, Preet is entertaining a packed crowd with various tales when
someone yells out "tell us about the Uprising!" With a lengthy sigh and conspiratorial look at
the crowd, he quietly says "if that's what you'd like, but know that it's not always a welcome
subject, so be careful where and *when* ye ask for 'em." His eyes are directed at a member of
the Pride and Comfort seated in the back of the room, who is quietly scanning the crowd until
his gaze rests on Gven.

### _The Uprising..._

Several centuries ago, magic was common in Eritz and the rest of Olam, and magic-users were
well respected by the citizens, revered even. They made phenomenal discoveries and advances in
the mystic arts that improved the lives of all in Eritz. One wizard, Acertep, led them with
a noble mind and sincere heart, expanding their power and influence across the continent. As
it tends to do, greater power lead to greater arrogance and the magic users began to see
themselves as above the law. Who was anyone to question their benevolence or magnanimous
intentions?

Acertep continued to lead the magic users in Eritz as they mutated into an unbending and
unrelenting force for authoritarian control over all others. Along for the ride, the religious
leaders allied themselves with the magic users. The clerics and paladins of the clergy would
police the populace and fight in battles alongside the magicians and wizards. The magic users
and clergy felt that they, and only them, knew what was best for the world, no one else could
contribute or lead in their stead.

For all of their power, the magic users and clergy were few in numbers when compared with
the rest of the population. Either of those paths took decades of disciplined study, earnest
practice, and focused apprenticeship. Those were often the paths of the privileged and
elite members of society, inaccessible to the average farmer, shopkeeper, or mercenary.

Finally, the tyranny became too much to endure for the non-magic and secular people. The
regular folks had numbers on their side, easily outnumbering their authoritarian leaders by
thousands to one. They also had the grit and determination that comes with knowing that
losing isn't an option, for they had nothing left to lose. The magic-users and clergy were
overthrown by the Eritzians over a couple of years, through bloody battle after bloody battle.

The new leaders created two groups to protect them from the sort of magical and religious
tyranny they had endured for so long: the Hands of the Wand and the Eyes of the Star.

The **Hands of the Wand** keep track of the magic users in the land and the **Eyes of the Star**
monitor religious and faith-based groups. They travel in pairs, working together to maintain
the safety of the people. Their uniform consists of durable leather armor with deep purple cloaks
that have large hoods—keeping their faces in the shadows—and conceal their weapons. It's
well known that the Hands of the Wand are magic users themselves, of course regulated and
monitored by their brethren. While both groups are well respected, even revered by many, some look
upon them with cynicism or concern that they're just different authoritarian masters.

Since the Uprising, both magic and religion are allowed, yet viewed skeptically by the
majority of folks. The Hands of the Wand and the Eyes of the Star keep the gatherings
small and manageable so that power isn't accumulated too quickly or in the wrong hands.
All in all, most of the people trust them to keep order, which they do generally with a
sense of justice and wisdom.

**Pride and the Comfort** riders have delivered the news and messages across Eritz for 
centuries as well, enduring even the chaos and danger of the Uprising. They wear a full-length
leather duster over their unassuming dark gray or black uniform and a
[tricorne hat](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tricorne) adorned with a bright silver buckle,
matching the one on their belt and their coat buttons. Their horses are renowned for being
the fastest, strongest, and having the most endurance of all horses across the land.
The riders are provided with large allowances and spend it freely wherever they
take a rest, making them quite popular. Because of the danger inherent in their work,
riders are well-trained in self-defense and weaponry. Even though a single rider can often
handle themselves, the group is acclaimed for its mounted division that provides
militaristic support whenever needed. You don't mess with the Pride and Comfort without
experiencing the consequences.

The Pride and Comfort rider listens to Preet's story of The Uprising without any visible
reaction, yet every once in a while looks over at Gven. She notices the attention and
meanders over to him, "is this seat available?" As they begin to chat amiably, the rider
reveals that he's recently seen a male half-orc that looks like Gven. It was about 7-10
days ago while delivering a package in the Legal Burrough of Elsamar. The building stood
out to him because on its roof there was a statue of a merchant standing on top of an orc,
as though they were its master.

Gven shares with the rider that her older brother, Torp, left their Barbarian tribe eight
years ago for his _Coming Out_—when young-adult barbarians venture out into the
world to gain experience and wisdom before deciding on their life's path—and never returned.
The rider describes how the young half-orc didn't look to happy with his situation, but the
rider's job is to deliver packages, not stick his nose into other's business. Seeing Gven
reminded him of the situation and he thought she might want to know.

Dolor is listening thoughtfully to their exchange, interested to learn more about his
traveling companion.

The adventurers finally leave Wayside and the Buzzin Bee, saying their goodbyes to
the sisters, Bonnie and Trill. Knowing this day was coming soon, Dolor spent the last
few days creating two vases, one for each sister, to thank them for their hospitality
and generosity. They were surprised by the gesture, especially Trill, whose eyes began
tearing up and hurriedly threw her arms around Dolor in a tight embrace.

Walking out of town, they encountered Cindel one final time. With a ray of sunshine
beaming down on her—and only her, because it was cloudy everywhere else—and the wind
lifting up her cape majestically, she dramatically said "Farewell, I won't miss you.
Huzzah!"

Heading westward, towards Elsamar, the group finds the roads slightly muddy from the
light rain they've had the past several days. They make decent time through the Quiet
Valley, keeping to the sides of the road where its less slippery with better traction.
The terrain of the countryside is turning more wooded, peppered with cedar and hemlock
trees.
