---
title: "Chapter 26"
show_date: true
date: 2024-01-22T17:00:00-00:00
sessiondate: "January 22, 2024"
modified: 2024-01-22
categories:
  - campaign
tags:
  - tavern
  - university
---

<!-- Originally written by Liam and edited by Tod -->

The group wakes mid-morning on the Iron Vulture to find the predicted rainstorm has arrived. 
It is akin to a verical river. They head to the Broken Spy Glass to update Tella on what
they discovered in the warehouse. Gven seems to have caught the stomach problems Mond had
last week and stays on the boat.

Passing through the market, it is clear that no one is happy about the rain. Everything and
everyone is either damp or, if less well prepared, soaked. The merchants range from subdued
to surly and the few customers that are about move quickly to buy necessities and get back
indoors. Life in the city continues on.

As they make their way, Grindlefoot's discomfort at the pouring rain motivates him to stop
at a merchant's booth who is selling quality cloaks and boots to replace his poorly made ones.
Grindlefoot is overcome with joy at the upgrade to his gear. The merchant sees this and is also
happy to have made a lucrative sale in the terrible weather, they throw in a complimentary
tin of oil for Grindlefoot to maintain the water proofing of the cloak and boots.

The party enters the Broken Spy Glass via the back door. The rain has kept customers away from
here as well. The only people in the place appear to be Tella, behind the bar tidying up, and
a dripping-wet Rightside, huddling dangerously close the fire.

Tella greets the party as they enter, reflexively asking what he can get them to eat and drink.
Rightside looks as you'd expect a wet cat to look: stringy body, matted fur, and a foul
expression. He's mumbling "I-hate-being-wetting" over and over as he works to dry himself.

Tella listens as the group outline the events of the previous night. He ponders their story
for a bit, then says that regulating and outlawing the use of magical and clerical powers is
a done deal. It is what it is. Yet, there is magic everywhere, all around us, and people have
an innate need for connection, usually with higher powers of their choosing. That leaves us
with a grey area, one that can cause discomfort and distrust. Especially for the Eyes of the
Star and Hand of the Wand, who are trying to keep the peace in a reasonable manner. Magic and
religion may not be practiced openly, but they are still here, all around us and an intricate
part of our lives. Tella makes a subdued gesture and offers a silent prayer to Sedocra, the
Goddess of Charity. 

Rightside speaks up from over by the fire, "Sometimes we get sad, Tella. My mother had a medallion she kept wrapped in special cloth. She only brought it out on important occasions, or when things were really hard. She'd say a prayer and we'd feel like we weren't alone. It always helped us feel better."

Ro'qu-ell-a, the red-haired halfing flutist that was previously busking by the docks and now
entertains the clientele in the Broken Spy Glass, nods her head in quiet agreement.

Tella advises the group to make their way up the hill to the University where they'll find
professor Verin, an [Aarakocran](https://www.dndbeyond.com/races/4-aarakocra), in the library.
They're extremely knowledgeable about regional history and owe Tella a favor.

An hour later, Dolor, Grindlefoot, Mond, and Bilwin find the enormous stone library on the
unversity's campus. They wander the halls for only a short time, quickly finding the professor
in a lecture hall, deep in conversation with a dark-haired human women and scribbling on a
blackboard. Dolor clears his throat loudly as they enter the classroom and the two look up.

After brief introductions and saying that Tella sent them, Bilwin pulls the old map out of
its protective case and unrolls it on the table for the professor to view. Professor Verin
recognizes the islands and some of the names. Amonah, Ba-it, and Kuht were popular gods in
the days of yesteryear, each one with an affinity for a specific race. The professor's
excitement is clear on their face and in their actions, as they begin outlining the hierchy
and history of the deities that the populace worshipped long ago.

Meanwhile, Gven saunters through the classroom entrance. She began feeling better after
Cap'n Don gave her a mysterious draft of ill-tasting gelatinous liquid. Regaining her
strength, Gven went to the Broken Spy Glass, where Ro'qu-ell-a told her that the
others had ventured off to the University in search of Professor Verin and answers to
their questions. Joining the group by the chalkboard, she settles in to hear the stories. 

Professor Verin is describing how the gods emerged from a large hole in the world and made
their homes among the different races and continents. After some years, they closed the hole
to signify their commitment to the lesser beings whose worship and prayers gave them so much
power. The group of islands off the coast in the ancient map were the seat of the pantheons
to the gods, surrounded by turblent waters and sea serpents.

As the professor was describing the histories and scribbling on the blackboard, everyone had
their backs to the door into the classroom. Suddenly, a crossbow bolt flies between the group,
past Verin's head and imbeds itself into the black slate!

<!--

## Liam's original notes 

The big rain storm has arrived and it is pouring down in sheets.  Everything damp or soaked. 

The market is very subdued.  

(What did we get for food?) 

We Go to see Tella

### Tavern

Tella: 
Talks about how regulating / outlawing use of magical and clerical powers is what it is but magic everywhere (including people such as Mond) and the people still have an innate need for connection with higher powers of their choosing.
So there is a grey area. The Eyes of the Star and Hands of the Wand keep the peace.   Magic and Religion may not be practiced openly, but they are still there. 

Rightside says:
Sometimes we get sad. 
Mother had a medalion in the house 

Tella:
Goddess of charity - Sedocra - 

Red headed halfling still working at the pub:
Ro'qu-ell-a

University - City Center - Uphill from the doughnut shop
Prof. Verin - Aarakocra

### Out in the Rain

Grindlefoot buys a quality cloak and boots - So happy, best thing ever
Complimentary tin of oil to maintain water proofing

### University

Find our way up hill to the University and then to the library 
Stone construction

Up the stairs to find Verin in a class/research/lecture hall

Ancient seat of the all the pantheons of the gods of the modern world
Group of Islands off the mainland 
Turbulent waters and sea serpents 

Many gods, different for each  race, but the same story
Don't know what or who the gods are, but they are powerful and derive energy from worship.  Story goes at one point there was a hole in the earth from which the gods emerged. Made their home in different aspects.  And then they closed the hole. 

Map we found with the islands is in rough agreement with professor's understanding

Amonna, Ba-it, Kuht,  

Student, TA was interested in these talk, Dark hair, human, Julianne.

Crossbow imbeds in the blackboard near Verins head and we turn to see: 
* 2 Cloaked figures 
* 3 others in leather armor

-->
