---
title: "Chapter 25"
show_date: true
date: 2024-01-08T17:00:00-00:00
sessiondate: "January 8, 2024"
modified: 2024-01-08
categories:
  - campaign
tags:
  - fight
---

<details><summary>Synopsis:</summary>

Leaving Mond on the Iron Vulture, suffering from something afflicting his guts,
the adventurers go to the warehouse at 2 AM. Seeing no lights inside, they climb a makeshift
ladder to the roof. Grindlefoot wild shapes into a giant spider, easily climbing the building
walls. The group surprises a half-elven guard, subdues them with spider's webbing, and knocks
them unconscious.

Descending into the warehouse through the trapdoor, Grindlefoot's giant spider gets stuck and
Gven and Dolor help push him through. Casting webbing as he falls, Grindlefoot catches himself
only a few feet from the floor and certain injury. They find the warehouse empty of people and
begin their investigation in the office. 

In the office, they discover detailed ledgers of the shipments coming to and from the warehouse,
including some from Amonah with the letter "P" noted next to them. Gven notices that the ledgers
trackl arrival date, number of crates, origin, and an initial. The most recent time a T is listed
is 2 weeks ago—T for her brother, Torp. Looking in the desk drawer, Dolor notices a piece
of paper with a symbol on it that looks like a skewed W inside a circle.

/\   \     /
  |  |    /
  | /    /
  |/____/

In the center of the warehouse, Grindlefoot has discovered a half-opened crate with several
different sized coins and medallions. Bilwin realizes that they're holy symbols—and are highly
illegal since the Conflict. They leave the warehouse, undiscovered and with the unconscious
guard wrapped up in a spider's web. Return to the Iron Vulture for a long rest.

</details>


<!-- em dash: — | kebyoard shortcut = Option + Shift + Dash (-) -->
<!-- https://oatcookies.neocities.org/dndmoney to convert copper, silver, gold, and more into CP -->
