---
title: "Chapter 43"
show_date: true
date: 2024-10-14T17:00:00-00:00
sessiondate: "October 14, 2024"
modified: 2024-10-14
categories:
  - campaign
tags:
  - fight
  - island
---

The group prepares for the night's rest after their campfire dinner and conversation.

"Why, Bilwin, my fine friend, what might that be lying next to your bedroll? The case looks
worse for wear, but it's what's inside that my curiosity needs to know."

"This," the dwarf moves the case so he can open it and tenderly removes his beloved
instrument, "is my trusty [hurdy-gurdy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hurdy-gurdy). 
It's gone with me through thick and thin, underground and above, in the air and on
the seas." There's a glimmer in his eye, "I'll take first watch for the night." He
begins to play softly.

Gustaf smiles, crawls into his bedroll, puts a black mask over his eyes, puffs of cotton into
his ears, and pulls the covers up to his neck.

Dolor is crawling into his own bedroll and looks at Gustaf then Bilwin. "I don't think those
cotton balls are going to stop the noise, but not a bad idea. I'll take the second watch."

The rest of the adventurers settle in for the first part of the night. Everyone is
surprised to hear a slow-paced and hopeful tune emerge from Bilwin's instrument. The
wistful melody permeates the area around them, causing each of them to smile for some
triggered memory or thought. Off in the distance, unknown to the group, a large predator
wakes from its day of rest, ready to begin the night's hunt—until it hears the soothing
sounds of the dwarf's melody, and decides that its prey can wait a little longer.

Long rest....

---

With the last watch, Grindlefoot wakes the others with the smell of breakfast cooking
over the rekindled campfire. Gustaf is the last to wake, but the first to speak. "Hmmm,
that smells delicious!"

"I didn't have to venture far to find some eggs, mushrooms, and berries to make omelettes.
I did hear some rustling off in the bushes that sounded like something awfully large,
but it also sounded like it yawned." He shrugs his shoulders. "Oh well, dig in."

After a short breakfast, they break camp and continue towards the mountain temple. Dolor
leads the way, with Bilwin and Gustaf trailing behind him discussing the different
geology and rock formations along their path. Mond and Grindlefoot walk in silence
behind the dwarf and archaeologist, while Gven keeps watch to the rear.

Several hours pass without any concerns as the terrain continues to change. There are fewer
trees, shrubs, and vegetation, and the land becomes more rocky and barren. The path leads
them into narrow canyons that gradully become deeper, the tops reaching twenty feet above
the ground.

Dolor exits one of the canyons, entering into a small clearing, when an arrow plunks into
the ground at his feet. "Far enough, what brings you here?"

Standing next to the arrow, Dolor looks around and sees no one on the ledges above the
clearing. "My own business. Let us pass and you'll have no trouble."

From a canyon on the other side of the clearing, a tall, muscular human man walks slowly
into the open space. He's wearing plate armor and a greatsword in a scabbard at his side.
A few smaller soldiers follow behind him, eyeing Dolor and looking confident in their odds
of three to one.

"Who do you serve?"

Before answering, the tiefling sighs and rests his hand on Gleaming Blade's pommel. "No one."

The brawny warrior across the way draws his sword and begins walking towards Dolor. "We 
serve The One!"

---

During their trek through the canyons, Gven has dropped back from the group to keep a lookout
behind them, making sure no one sneaks up and catches them unaware. While making her way quietly,
she hears the exchange between Dolor and the other man up ahead, still unable to see them because
of the winding chasm. She slows to a stop and looks upward, seeing that the top of the canyon is
a short, simple climb.

<!-- Fight choreography -->

<!-- Initiative rolls:
  Bilwin - 6
  Dolor - 14
  Grindlefoot - 12
  Gven - 22
  Mond - 6
-->

<!-- Round 1 -->

<!-- Step-by-step
* Gven - Climbs to the top of the canyon on the right side and sees two shapes that have done
  their best to camouflage themselves with the terrain, one on each side of the chasm.
* Archer 1 - Pops up from their hiding place and fires 2 arrows at Dolor, only one hits for 10 piercing damage.
  They immediately drop down and hide.
  * Dolor invokes [uncanny dodge](https://www.dndbeyond.com/classes/12-rogue#UncannyDodge-347) to reduce the damage.
* Archer 2 - Pops up from their hiding place and fires 2 arrows at Mond, only one hits for 10 piercing damage.
  They immediately drop down and hide.
* Knight - Goes to attack Mond, who is dressed like a sorcerer, but runs into Bilwin—standing
  in front of Mond—and swings his greatsword at the dwarf twice, deflected both times by the dwarf's
  magic stein.
  * Mond - reacts to the knight's attack with [Shield](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2619019-shield).
* Dolor - Attacks the knight with Gleaming Blade and his off-hand shortsword, but both miss.
* Grindlefoot - Scoops up a handful of sand from the ground and casts
  [Fog Cloud](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2618910-fog-cloud) above their heads, to obscure
  the archers' view.
  * He then casts [Shillelagh](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2249-shillelagh) on his stick.
* Mond - Casts his signature pink [Lightning Bolt](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2618999-lightning-bolt)
  at one of the smaller soldiers, for 30 points damage, killing them instantly. 
  * The lightning bolt also hits the knight for 30 points damage.
  * He then edges backward five feet, to get out of the knight's sword range.
* Bilwin - Furious about the knight attacking his stein, he swings his hurdy-gurdy case with all his
  might and hits, for 4 damage.
  * Unconsciously, the [Spiritual Weapon](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2263-spiritual-weapon)
    appears and attacks the knight, but misses.
* Soldier - Runs up next to the knight and yells, "Lord Elzibar!" Then attacks Dolor with a shortsword and misses.
-->

Gven easily scrambles up the canyon wall to the right side without disturbing any rocks or alerting
the enemies to her position. Reaching the top, she slowly looks over the edge and quietly pulls herself
up, keeping herself hidden. Scanning the area, she's able to barely make out two shapes along the top
of the clearing, one on each side. They've camouflaged themselves with the terrain and are almost
impossible to see.

Just then, one of them stands up from their hiding spot, aims their bow down into the clearing, and
quickly fires off two arrows at Dolor. Only one of them hits the rogue, and he responds by invoking
[uncanny dodge](https://www.dndbeyond.com/classes/12-rogue#UncannyDodge-347) to reduce the damage.
Before Gven can determine their exact location, the figure drops back down into the rocks, becoming
invisible.

Just as quickly, the figure on the other side of the chasm pops up from their cover and fires two
arrows at Mond. One of them sticks into the ground and the other clips the half-elf's shoulder, turning
him with its force. The archer quickly drops down into the seemingly barren area and becomes unseen
to Gven's eyes.

The large, muscular warrior—likely a knight in service to The One—notices Mond's robes and correctly
identifies him as a magic user. He moves to attack the sorcerer with his greatsword and accidentally
attacks Bilwin, not seeing that the short dwarf stood between them. With a look of shock, Bilwin
fends off the knight's sword with his magic stein. "How dare you attack beer, ya brute!"

Mond reacts to the knight's attack by casting [Shield](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2619019-shield)
and moving five feet backwards, out of the greatsword's reach.

Dolor swings Gleaming Blade at the knight's arm, but it slides off the plate armor as though it were
a toy. He follows up with a slice of his off-hand shortsword on the other arm, but it, too, is brushed
away with ease by the heavy armor.

Scooping up a handful of sand from the ground, Grindlefoot casts
[Fog Cloud](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2618910-fog-cloud) above their heads, to obscure
the archers' view. Seeing that he might need to actually defend himself, the druid halfling
casts [Shillelagh](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2249-shillelagh) on his stick.

Suddenly, Mond's signature pink [Lightning Bolt](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2618999-lightning-bolt)
erupts from his hands, streaking towards the knight and one of his soldiers, too quick for the naked eye
to follow. The soldier bursts into pink flames and within seconds turns into a pile of ash on the ground.
The knight screams out in pain from the lightning bolt, but remains standing and glaring at the sorcerer
with hatred.

Furious about having his precious stein attacked, Bilwin slides his hurdy-gurdy case off of his back
and swings it with all his might at the gigantic knight in front of him. He connects with the man's
midsection, who gives an audible "oof" and pulls his gaze from the sorcerer to the dwarf. Unexpectedly,
at least to the knight and his companion, the [Spiritual Weapon](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2263-spiritual-weapon)
appears next to Bilwin. The spectral floating hurdy-gurdy attacks the knight, but misses.

The other soldier moves closer to the knight and yells, "Lord Elzibar!" Then attacks Dolor with their
shortsword, missing widely in their zealous outrage.

As the battle begins to take shape in front of him, Gustaf remains inside the walled canyon trail,
where he can be hidden from sight—and the attacks of zealots.

<!-- Round 2 -->

<!-- Step-by-step
* Gven - Suddenly surrounded by fog, "Fucking halfling...that was brilliant!" Runs into the fog towards
  the last spot she thought she saw the archer, ready to attack. "Come to me, I am The One."
* Archer 1 - From within the fog, "Blasphemy!" and an arrow flies by Gven's head while another slices
  through her arm, drawing blood.
* Archer 2 - Fires two arrows at Mond, both miss.
* Knight - Really mad at Bilwin, who still stands between him and Mond. Swings his greatsword at the
  dwarf, missing the first time and connecting solidly on the second, for 13 damage.
* Dolor - Attacks the soldier closest to Grindlefoot with Gleaming Blade, for 20 damage and he drops.
  * Off-hand attack at the knight misses.
* Grindlefoot - Swings his shillelagh stick at the knight and misses, but connects on the backswing
  with his arm against the warrior's shin for 4 damage. And the halfling has a very sore arm now.
* Mond - Casts [Lightning Bolt](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2618999-lightning-bolt)
  at the knight, for 27 points damage, who is looking worse for wear. Then he runs ahead into the fog,
  towards where the knight and soldiers came from.
* Bilwin - "Thank you, Hanseath" and blesses everyone in the party, giving them 1d4 on attack and saving throws.
-->

Finding herself suddenly surrounded by an impenetrable fog, Gven mutters under her breath, "Fucking
halfling...brilliant!" She runs into the fog towards the last spot she saw the archer duck down for
cover, pulling Tempest Edge from its scabbard, the blade's blue glow becomes a beacon in the mist.
Loud enough for her enemy to hear, "Come to me, for I am The One."

"Blasphemy!" echoes from an indeterminable direction in the fog, followed closely by an arrow that
flies by Gven's head. Mere moments later, a second arrow slices through her arm, drawing blood and a
grimace of pain.

On the opposite side of the chasm, another archer fires two arrows at Mond, both missing the sorcerer
and plunking into the ground at his feet. 

In the clearing, the knight glares at Bilwin, who still stands between him and his target, Mond.
His fury is evident in the clumsy swing of his weapon as it misses the short dwarf by a wide margin.
"I'm down here, you big oaf!" With a look of fury, his backswing slices through part of Bilwin's
leather armor, leaving a gash in the dwarf's forearm. "Better aim, but you're still mean and I don't
like you very much!"

Standing close to Grindlefoot, Dolor thrusts Gleaming Blade into a soldier's side, clear to the
magical blade's hilt. As the corpse slowly falls to the ground and Gleaming Blade slides free, the
tielfling gracefully twists to his other side and in the same motion slices the knight with his
off-hand shortsword, but the plate armor deflects the blade.

Grindlefoot swings his shillelagh stick at the knight and misses. Seeing an opportunity, the halfling
reverses the motion and slams his elbow into the knight's armored shin, causing the big man to grunt in some
small amount of pain—or perhaps acknowledgement. Grindlefoot feels his arm go slightly numb.
"Ouch, that's plate armor! What am I doing?"

Returning the knight's hate-filled glare, Mond calmly raises his hands and, again, casts
[Lightning Bolt](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2618999-lightning-bolt). The pink lightning
shoots out across the ten feet separating them and envelopes the warrior encased in
metal armor, causing him to arch backwards and scream out in pain. Seeing an opportunity to put
more distance between himself and the angry knight, Mond runs ahead into the fog, towards where
the knight and soldiers entered the clearing. As the sorcer runs away, the large warrior falls
to the ground and lies unmoving.

Bilwin makes a few motions with his hands and bows his head for a brief moment. "Thank you, Hanseath."
Suddenly, everyone in the party feels slightly more energized, as though they've been
[Blessed](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2618933-bless) by Bilwin's prayer.

<!-- Round 3 -->

<!-- Step-by-step
* Gven - Slides Tempest Edge back into its scabbard and pulls one of her hand axes from her belt.
  Advances towards where the arrow came from, hoping to find the stealthy archer. Calls out into
  the fog, "A little help with this fog, druid!" She hears, "More or less?" "Less!"
* Mond - Running in the fog, slams into two cowled figures, one of who instantly attacks him with
  a spell, but misses. The second figure speaks the same command word as the first, but Mond
  is able to also withstand their spell. "There are two more robed ones in here!"
* Archer 1 - Fires two arrows at Dolor and misses.
* Archer 2 - Fires two arrows at Bilwin, one hits for 5 damage.
* Dolor - Hearing Gven's voice from the top of the right side, he quickly climbs the twenty foot
  canyon wall, but doesn't see anyone, except for Gven.
* Grindlefoot - Stops his concentration and lets the fog disperse, then runs towards Mond and sees
  the two robed figures. Attacks one with his shillelagh for 8 damage, follows up with an elbow to
  the same figure, for 4 more damage.
* Mond - Since the fog disappeared, can now see the two figures and casts
  [Burning Hands](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2618946-burning-hands) at the two, hitting one
  for 9 damage and the other for 14.
* Bilwin - Climbs the left side canyon wall to look for the other archer, "Where the heck are ya?"
-->

Realizing that Tempest Edge's glowing blade highlights her in the fog, Gven slides it into its sheath
and pulls a hand axe from her belt. She walks in the direction from where the arrow came, hoping to
find the stealthy archer amongst the rocks. Calling out into the fog, "A little help with this fog,
druid!" She hears Grindlefoot's voice from below, "More or less?" "Less!"

Running into the fog, Mond collides with two cowled figures. One reacts instantly to his appearance,
uttering a word under their breath and pointing at the sorcerer, who feels a spell slide
by without impacting him. The second figure speaks the same command word as the first, but Mond is
able to withstand their spell as well. Loudly, so the others can here, "There are two more robed ones
in here!"

Still under cover of the fog, the two archers release another volley of two arrows each. The first two
miss Dolor, digging into the dirt at his feet. The other two are aimed at Bilwin, one of which grazes his
thigh, enough to hurt without drawing blood. The dwarf looks up, noting approximately where they originated.

Hearing Gven's voice from above, Dolor deftly climbs the twenty foot canyon wall to join her. Reaching
the top, he can't see anything beyond a few feet into the fog.

Grindlefoot responds to Gven's request and releases his concentration from the fog cloud, allowing the
mist to disperse naturally. Within moments, he's able to see Mond and the two robed figures. Still holding
his fighting stick imbued with the shillelagh cantrip, the halfling runs forward to join the sorcerer.
He swings it at the arm of one of the clerics, who grimaces in pain, then follows it with a hand-to-hand
attack against the same cleric, causing him to curse and try to pull away.

Now that the fog has dissipated, Mond is able to clearly see his two new opponents, dressed in cowled
robes that hang to their feet with hoods covering their faces. He casts
[Burning Hands](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2618946-burning-hands) at the two, encasing them in a thin
sheet of flames. They both bend over in excruciating pain, and when the flames stop the cuffs of their robes
continue to glow a deep yellow from the fire.

Bilwin thinks that he can tell where the arrows came from; he climbs the left side canyon wall to look for
the archer who attacked him. "Where the heck are ya?"

<!-- Round 4 -->

<!-- Step-by-step
* Gven - She notices that Dolor has joined her from below and continues searching for the hidden archer, with no luck.
* Cleric 1 - Tries to grapple Mond, but fails. Mutters under their breath and a jagged blade apppears next to them
  (their spiritual weapon). Mond is able to dispel it.
* Cleric 2 - Touches Grindlefoot, causing 21 necrotic damage. Mutters under their breath and a jagged blade apppears
  next to them (their spiritual weapon). It attacks Grindlefoot fo 11 damage.
* Archer 1 - Fires two arrows at Gven, one hits for 5 piercing damage. Then disappears.
* Archer 2 - Fires two arrows at Bilwin, one hits for 12 damage. Then disappears.
* Dolor - Sees that Mond and Grindlefoot are battling two clerics, fires an arrow from his shortbow for 16 damage and
  kills one of them. Then he hides in the rocks.
* Grindlefoot - Hurting pretty badly, casts [Invisibility](https://bg3.wiki/wiki/Invisibility_(spell)) (which is
  available to [Circle of the Land](https://bg3.wiki/wiki/Circle_of_the_Land) druids) on himself and Mond, then slowly retreats.
* Mond - Casts [Chaos Bolt](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/14761-chaos-bolt) at the remaining cleric, for 8 damage.
* Bilwin - Unable to find the archer, calls on Hanseath to cast [Guiding Bolt](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2619136-guiding-bolt)
  at the remaining cleric for 17 damage, killing them.
-->

While searching for the rogue archer, Gven notices that Dolor has joined her on top of the canyon walls. With her
attention on the tiefling, an arrow sails past her torso, immediately followed by another that slices through her
leathor armored leg.

Down below in the clearing, one of the robed clerics attempts to grappel Mond, but he's able to twist away
and remain free. Agitated by their failure, a spectral jagged blade appears floating next to the cleric and
slashes at Mond. Again, the sorcerer is agile enough to resist the ethereal knife.

After being brutally attacked by the halfling, the second cleric touches Grindlefoot lightly on the arm and
whispers a word. The halfling druid feels his lifeforce draining away, leaving him lethargic and hazy. Another
spectral blade appears and slashes at Grindlefoot, cutting through his leathor armor, leaving a gashing wound
in his side that begins to bleed down his leg. In response, the small-statured druid casts
[Invisibility](https://bg3.wiki/wiki/Invisibility_(spell)) and slowly retreats from battle.

From above the other side of the clearing, the hidden archer fires two arrows at Bilwin. The first one pierces the
fleshy part of his shoulder. The dwarf grunts in pain, reaching for the wound with his other hand and shifting his
body's position, causing the other arrow to narrowly miss.

From his vantage point on top of the canyon wall, Dolor sees that Mond is battling two clerics. He notches an
arrow in his shortbow and fires at one of them. The arrow's tip enters at the base of the hood, piercing the
cleric's throat and killing them instantly. Realizing that he's a visible target for the enemy archer harassing
Gven, the tiefling rogue disguises himself in the surrounding rocks, effectively becoming invisible.

Watching one of the cowled clerics fall to the ground from Dolor's arrow, Mond points his hand at the last one
standing and casts [Chaos Bolt](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/14761-chaos-bolt). A warbling mass of chaotic
energy blasts from his hand and into the enemy, who convulses in agony and barely remains on their feet. 

Unable to find the archer above the clearing, Bilwin calls on Hanseath to cast
[Guiding Bolt](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2619136-guiding-bolt) at the remaining cleric below. A bolt of
light shoots from his hand and into the robed enemy below, who is still convulsing from Mond's bolt of chaos and
falls limply to the ground, dead.

Breathing heavily and tired from the spellcasting and fight, Mond looks up at Bilwin with a nod of gratitude.
"Smells like barbeque."

<!-- NOTES -->

<!-- em dash: — | Mac kebyoard shortcut = Option + Shift + Dash (-) -->
<!-- https://oatcookies.neocities.org/dndmoney to convert copper, silver, gold, and more into CP -->
<!-- Frequently used links:
  [Barbarian rage](https://www.thegamer.com/dungeons-dragons-dnd-barbarian-rage-explained-guide/)
  [Bardic inspiration](https://www.dndbeyond.com/classes/1-bard#BardicInspiration-75)
  [Chaos Bolt](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/14761-chaos-bolt)
  [Hanseath](https://forgottenrealms.fandom.com/wiki/Hanseath)
  [Hellish Rebuke](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/hellish-rebuke)
  [hurdy-gurdy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hurdy-gurdy)
  [Mind Spike](http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/spell:mind-spike)
  [Shillelagh](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2249-shillelagh)
  [Spiritual Weapon](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2263-spiritual-weapon)
  [Wild Shape](https://www.dndbeyond.com/posts/635-druid-101-wild-shape-guide)
-->
<!--
  Lists of spells for the classes:
    - Bard spells: https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/class/1-bard
    - Cleric spells: https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/class/cleric 
    - Druid spells: https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/class/druid
    - Sorcerer spells: https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/class/sorcerer
  Monsters: https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters
  Damage types: https://www.wargamer.com/dnd/damage-types
  Luck (Bilwin): http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/feat:lucky
-->
<!-- Directions on a boat:
  Port = left side
  Starboard = right side
  Bow = front
  Aft = back (inside the ship, on board)
  Stern = back (outside, offboard)
-->
