---
title: "Chapter 30"
show_date: true
date: 2024-03-18T17:00:00-00:00
sessiondate: "March 18, 2024"
modified: 2024-03-18
categories:
  - campaign
tags:
  - fight
  - out-to-sea
---

It's been a few days since the crew survived the
[young kraken](https://5e.tools/bestiary/young-kraken-lr.html)'s attack and everyone is
settling into their respective roles around the Iron Vulture.

Mond has spent the time with Cap'n Don Karnahge, learning the ins and outs of navigating the
Iron Vulture from the helm. He's become quite adept at keeping the ship on course by feeling
the currents below and the winds above, both pushing and pulling on the vessel in their own
ways.

Dolor's interest in and experience with the mechanics of watch-making have lead him below
deck, investigating the pipes, levers, gauges, and pulleys, in an attempt to understand the
inner workings of the vessel. He's even managed to fix several small things that Cap'n Don
hadn't gotten to and suggest some improvements. "Aye, lad, dats a right clever way to go
'bout getting da steam up to the deck to power da coffee warmer-upper-thingamabob!"

As a smaller individual, Grindlefoot has a vested interest in self-defense and protection.
He's discovered that the ever-moving deck of the Iron Vulture is the perfect place to practice
[Way of the Drunken Fist](https://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/Way_of_the_Drunken_Fist_(5e_Subclass)).
Gven watches him with curiosity, while Bilwin gives the halfling a few pointers on his form,
usually offering a pint of ale to go with the words.

Since Bilwin's unexpectedly close contact with [Hanseath](https://forgottenrealms.fandom.com/wiki/Hanseath),
his time has been devoted to praying and questioning his direction. He's learning to embrace
that his deity suddenly reappeared in that moment of need, but he's uncertain if he can
do it again. What exactly did he say or do? Why is he having trouble remembering what should
come as second-nature to a cleric? There's something in the back of his mind, a tickling
memory of time that he cannot quite bring to the front or recall with any clarity.

Gven has been brooding and introspective, wondering how her older brother, Torp, ended up on
this destructive path—planning the genocide of all magic users in Eritz. And, almost more
importantly, how can she stop him? And why does she feel responsible for him? She's not his
keeper or caretaker, nor is she truly a member of the Heart of the People—they joined with
Tella to find Torp, not be saviors or heroes. If only she had a magical weapon to match her
strength and fighting ability, then she could really make a difference.

As night falls on the third day since they left Elsemar, Cap'n Don looks out over the
bow, off into the distance. "There be a storm a brewin. I'd bet my extra pinky toe on it."
Mond gives the captain a side-look of inquiry. "It helps wit me balance. Think 'bout it,
more surface to grip the deck wit. Common sense, eh." With an almost imperceptible wink
and smirk to Mond, the captain turns to the rest of the crew on deck and says "better git
some rest while ye can, mates. The night might no' be what ye expect." Everyone meanders
to their bunks and hammocks below deck, except for Dolor, who volunteers to help keep
watch topside, so the captain can get some rest.

A few hours after nightfall, Cap'n Don is lying awake in his hammock, strung up close
to the helm so that he can rest while keeping an eye on things. Muttering to himself
about the dark clouds blocking the stars and his eerie feeling about the coming storm.
Before he can usher any sort of warning to the others, they're battling the roughest seas
that any of them have ever seen, even the captain. A deluge of rain engulfs and isolates
them on the sea while the winds howl and blow with gusts strong enough to tip the ship on
its side, dipping the yards into the water. Barely heard by his makeshift crew, most of
whom are sleeping below deck, Cap'n Don screams out "Git up! We need to trim the sails,
git 'em rolled up and outta way. Wake yer arses up, lads!"

<!-- Directions on a boat:
  Port = left side
  Starboard = right side
  Bow = front
  Aft = back (inside the ship, on board)
  Stern = back (outside, offboard)
-->

Storm choreography:

<!-- Initiative rolls:
  Bilwin - 8
  Dolor - 17
  Grindlefoot - 6
  Gven - 21
  Mond - 8
-->

<!-- Round 1 -->
* Gven wakes immediately and heads up to the deck, seeing and feeling the storm weather,
  she can barely keep her footing on deck.
* Dolor, keeping watch close to the main mast, ties himself to the thick piece of lumber.
* A large gust of wind blows across the deck, but Gven and Dolor keep their feet.
* Mond attempts the ladder-stair up to the deck, but a sudden wave jostles the boat and
  he falls backward, landing prone at the bottom of the stairs.
* Don sees that Gven and Dolor are close to the main mast and yells at them to
  [pull the sails](https://www.kavas.com/sailors-guide/chapter-a-the-basics/a3-beginner-nautical-terms.html).
* Bilwin makes it past Mond, lying on the floor at the bottom of the stairs, up to the deck
  and follows Gven and Dolor towards the main mast.
* Grindlefoot, quickly waking up but still in his hammock, checks the weather with a cantrip,
  verifying that it isn't a magical storm, and then heads towards the stairs up to the main deck.

<!-- Round 2 -->
* Gven climbs up the main mast and gets to the first [spar](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spar_(sailing)).
* Dolor begins climbing the other side of the main mast, but a strong gust of wind and the
  slipperiness of the rain causes him to lose his footing. Before he can even think about
  catching himself, Bilwin casts [Feather Fall](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/feather-fall)
  and Dolor is suddenly floating downward to land softly on the deck.
* A huge wave at the front of the Iron Vulture, takes the ship hundreds of feet high and then
  crashing down on the other side. Mond is trying to stand up, but is knocked back down on his
  butt and takes 5 damage. Bilwin loses his balance on the top deck and begins to fall, but grabs
  one of the many ropes strung around the deck, keeping his footing.
* Mond, still below deck, casts [True Strike](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/true-strike) to
  determine if the storm is magical. It seems _mostly_ normal, but there's a curious element of
  oddness to it.
* Cap'n Don asks Dolor for help with the wheel.
* Bilwin climbs the main mast, with Gven, to help pull in the sails and begins working on the
  first spar, opposite of Gven.
* Grindlefoot casts [Daylight](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/daylight) on the crow's nest,
  lighting the whole ship in daylight, but leaving the skies beyond shrouded in a magical darkness.

<!-- Round 3 -->
* Gven finished gathering up the sail on one side of the first spar, then scoots over to the
  other side to begin working on it.
* Dolor makes his way over to the helm, assisting Cap'n Don with balancing the wheel in the
  turmoil of the storm.
* A sharp, loud, and brigh crack of lightning strikes the water nearby.
* Mond finally reaches the top of the stairs and moves towards the smaller aft mast.
* Don releases the wheel as the tumultuous waves have their way with the Iron Vulture and
  he can no longer control it.
* Bilwin is able to tie up one of the sails.
* Grindlefoot casts [Call Lightning](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/call-lightning), attempting
  to control the storm.

<!-- Round 4 -->
* Gven is just able to get the rest of the sail on the lowest spar rolled up and then begins
  climbing to the next spar, which is in complete darkness, out of the daylight spell.
* Dolor attempts to grab the ship's wheel during a lull in the spinning and Cap'n Don joins him,
  bringing the Iron Vulture back to a semblance of control, although they have no idea
  which direction they're heading.
* Another shear wind blows across the ship's deck, knocking Mond down and causing 3 damage.
* Mond climbs back up the aft mast, to the spar.
* The captain continues to help Dolor with the wheel.
* Bilwin climbs further up the main mast, to the next spar on the same side as Gven to help
  her gather up the sail.
* Grindlefoot makes his way to the smaller bow mast and is able to climb to the first spar.

<!-- Round 5 --> 
* Gven fails to tie up the second portion of the sail on the top spar.
* Dolor continues to help Cap'n Don at the helm.
* The Iron Vulture finds itself climbing another monstrous wave, pitching upwards and then
  suddenly downwards
  * Grindlefoot is thrown down to the deck from the bow mast and causing 9 damage.
  * Gven loses her grip on the top spar of the main mast and falls, but becomes entangled
    in the netting and takes 18 damage.
  * Bilwin is able to maintain his hold on the top spar of the main mast, but still takes 9 damage.
  * Mond rides through the wave without any incident, looking around with a grin to see if anyone
    noticed his success.
* Mond is able to tie up 1 of the 2 sails on the aft mast.
* Don continues to manage the ship's stability at the wheel with Dolor's help.
* Grindlefoot climbs back up the bow mast.

<!-- Round 6 -->
* Gven untangles herself from the netting and ropes to climb back up to the top spar and
  help Bilwin.
* Dolor stands his post at the ship's wheel.
* Another sudden blast of wind cuts across the ship, causing several of them to fall from
  their current positions.
  * Gven falls to a lower point on the main mast and takes 8 damage.
  * Grindlefoot falls from the bow mast, hitting the deck and taking 8 damage.
  * Mond falls to the deck from the aft mast, taking 8 damage.
* Mond climbs back up the aft mast to the spar, yet again.
* Don maintains his position at the wheel, alongside Dolor.
* Bilwin fails to roll up the sail on the main mast's top spar, while encouraging Gven
  to climb back up.
* Grindlefoot [wild shapes](https://www.dndbeyond.com/posts/635-druid-101-wild-shape-guide)
  into a [giant spider](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/16895-giant-spider) and nimbly
  climbs up the bow mast.

<!-- Round 7 -->
* Gven climbs back up to the top spar on the main mast.
* Dolor continues to help the captain maintain the wheel.
* Climbing and then cresting yet another gargantuan wave, Bilwin is knocked off the
  main mast, but only takes 3 damage.
* Mond is finally able to roll up the sail on the aft mast.
* Bilwin begins his climb back up the main mast, to help Gven roll up the final sails.
* Grindelfoot, as a giant spider, fails to roll up the sail on the bow mast.

<!-- Round 8 -->
* Gven is barely able to roll up 1 of the 2 final sails on the main mast's top spar.
* Dolor and Cap'n Don continue to fight with the Iron Vulture's wheel to keep a sense
  of stability in the rough seas.
* A stab of lightning comes from the dark clouds, but Grindlefoot is able to control
  where it lands and sends it far away from the ship.
* Mond waits at the bottom of the aft mast, holding on tightly to keep his balance.
* Cap'n Don suddenly looks at Dolor, spreads his mouth in a wide grin and shouts "dis
  is livin, ain't it boyo!"
* Bilwin ties off the last sail on the main mast and the ship suddenly grows a little calmer.
* Grindlefoot, still as a giant spider, gets a bright idea! He leaps off of the bow mast,
  letting the wind propel him in its fury, while he shoots webbing out of his butt at the
  mast—it's really from his abdomen, but Grindlefoot the halfling doesn't know that. The
  giant spider spins around the bow mast, encasing the smaller sail in webbing and
  effectively making it unusable.

Within seconds, the ship becomes more manageable, even with the storm continuing to
rage around them. The captain, with Dolor's assistance, is able to keep the ship
upright and on course, although they're uncertain where it will take them.

They soon feel the rain becoming softer and the waves getting more gentle, when the
clouds part to reveal a calm sea surrounding a small island. Sitting on a very large
rock, two hundred feet high, is a large female figure, wearing polished scale mail
and holding a very large great sword.

Nodding her head to the group, she says "you're a very bright thing in a very dark
place. That's unusual. I wasn't expecting that."

<!--
I THINK THIS GOES IN THE NEXT CHAPTER?

With an almost imperceptible wink
and smirk to Mond, the captain turns to the main mast and shouts up at Gven, currently on
watch in the crow's nest. "What do you see out off in the distance, barbarian?" 

With her gained experience and because she follows the
[Path of the Totem Warrior](https://dnd5e.wikidot.com/barbarian:totem-warrior), Gven has adopted
the Eagle's Aspect of the Beast that allows her to see 1 mile away as though it were only
100 feet. Not even having to squint, she sees heavy storm clouds blocking the light and pummeling
the sea with rains in the direction they're headed. It's unavoidable, unless they turn around
and head back to where they came from.
-->

<!-- em dash: — | kebyoard shortcut = Option + Shift + Dash (-) -->
<!-- https://oatcookies.neocities.org/dndmoney to convert copper, silver, gold, and more into CP -->
<!--
    Lists of spells for the classes:
    - Cleric spells: https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/class/cleric 
    - Druid spells: https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/class/druid
    - Sorcerer spells: https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/class/sorcerer
    Monsters: https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters
-->
