---
title: "Chapter 61"
show_date: true
date: 2025-08-18T17:00:00-00:00
sessiondate: "August 18, 2025"
modified: 2025-08-18
categories:
  - campaign
tags:
  - fight
  - graveyard
  - neverwinter
---

Moving down the staircase on the right side of the long hall, Gven overtakes Grindlefoot to take the lead
position. Knowing she's better prepared to handle a surprise attack, the halfling nods in appreciation.

After descending a dozen steps, they enter a room that is fifteen feet across to the other side and twenty
five feet wide, from one side to the other. Evenly spaced in the middle area of the room are six pedestals,
each one with an object hovering over it or laying on it. Looking to their left, at the other side of the room,
they see another set of stairs proceeding updward.

Moving into the room, Dolor approaches a pedestal where a beautifully crafted gold necklace has been carefully
placed. The ostentatious pendant attached to the herringbone sautoir reads, "My breath is yours, Kavetta. Take it."

"There's a sign on this one," Grindlefoot tells the others from his vantage point in front of one of
the pedestals. Reading aloud, "What good are treasures when home is denied."

Dolor responds, "This one too." Looking around at the other pedestals and their unique objects, "These must
have belonged to the Dolindar family. Perhaps there's something of use." The tiefling proceeds to investigate
each pedestal, searching for hidden traps and finding none.

In addition to the necklace, they find a pedestal laden with gold coins, and one with an ornate golden helmet.
Another has a spinning orb floating above it, one with a thick leatherbound book, and on the sixth pedestal rests
a circular stone base holding a translucent orb.

Mond walks over to the spinning globe and reads an inscription, "Gateways to Outlands." Turning to the others,
"I've heard of the Outlands. It's another plane, one filled with gates to other planes. A kind of transfer
station between worlds."

Moving to the crystalline orb, the sorcerer sees that it's a tiny replica of Neverwinter with pin-sized white
flecks covering the miniscule roads, parks, and rooftops. Curious, he picks up the globe and turns it sideways
then back to rightway up and it suddenly appears to be snowing inside. A smile comes to his face, "Clever."

Intrigued by the elaborately crafted helmet, Bilwin casts [Identify](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2152-identify)
to discover if it has any magical properties. Alas, it's merely an overly decorative warrior's helmet that was
created by a left-handed artisan.

Turning to the pedestal next to the helmet, Bilwin scoops the pile of gold coins into his hand and with some
slight movement of his hand, measures their weight. "About twenty two hundred in gold coins. That'll be useful,
don't ya say, Dolor!"

Curious about the large tomb, Gven walks to the pedestal to read the title, "Out of the Endless Prison." Elden
responds, "I know that one. It's refering to Carceri, an outer plane also known as the Red Prison where demons
and devils war endlessly. Nasty place. Right up your alley."

Anger beginning to twist her face, Gven says to the elven scholar, "What's that supposed to mean, little man?"
Knowing that elves consider humans beneath them, Gven's insult hits its mark.

"An orc wouldn't understand every tenth word in that text, but your savage ways would blend in seamlessly on Carceri."

Pulling Tempest Edge from its sheath, Gven barks at the elf, "Come closer and tell me more."

Elden brings his hands together in the beginnings of a spell, "With pleasure."

Dolor sees the trouble brewing and, as quietly as he can, gruffly yells at the half-orc and elf, "Stop it, both of
you! This is no time or place to continue an ethnic feud neither of you started."

In a huff of anger, Elden stomps off towards the stairs that ascend back to the higher level. Reaching a closed door
at the top, he kicks open the door without regard for what might be on the other side and passes through.

"I want to explore too"! And Bilwin follows the elf up the stairs and through the hastly opened door.
Glancing at Gven, still fuming from her encounter with Elden, Dolor realizes she needs a moment—or two or three—to
calm down and goes after the dwarf and elf. Mond and Grindlefoot follow behind, leaving Gven to her anger,
pacing around the pedestals.

---




## OLD - CHAPTER 60

As the companions make their way through the Evernight version of Neverdeath Graveyard,
Elden Keyward, a renouned scholar of the outer planes, explains the concept of a crevice of dusk. 

"It's essentially a weak spot between two specific planes of existence, the mortal world where the Neverwinter
we know exists and this gloomy world, called Shadowfell. Everwinter is basically a twisted, demented mirror image
of Neverwinter. A crevice of dusk acts as a portal, a doorway if you will, between the two worlds. Most of them
are transient in nature, not staying in place very long. You often find them appearing in back alleys, dank
cellars, or even closets. A few of them are stable and hold their position over long periods of time, but they're
hard to find and closely guarded secrets."

Mond listens intently, captivated by the description—and the potential of traveling between different planes
of existence. Less entranced by the scholar's lesson, Dolor suggests they find a place to take a long rest.

"I estimate we've been at this for a day, if not longer, and I'm weary." Mond and Bilwin nod their heads in
agreement. "Let's find a mausoleum that has enough space for us and with a defensible entrance."

It doesn't take long for them to come across a crypt that fits their needs. Grindlefoot opens the door and enters,
seeing a single casket in the middle of the ten by ten foot room. He walks over and taps several times on the
lid, then cocks his head listening for a response. Gven, who entered behind him, knocks softly on the wall next
to her in response.

"I heard that," the halfling says to Gven with a grin. "All clear, the current occupent is either out right now
or still dead."

The group is able to sleep undisturbed for eight hours, a refreshing change from the day's challenging events.

Long rest....

---

They wake to a desolate quiet outside the crypt, consume dry rations and water, gather their belongings, and
leave the small building to make their way towards the market. They pass through the graveyard entrance, which
is similar to the one they entered in Neverwinter, except for the decaying vegetation, pitted stone work, and
rusty metal gate hanging by a single hinge. Dolor notices there are no guards, likely unnecessary in Shadowfell.

Several minutes later, they make their way eastward through the town's streets, noticing the buildings in various
states of decay and overgrown with seemingly dead vegetation. It's as dark as night and the sky has heavy clouds,
but they have no idea what time of day it might be. They hear ghouls and other creatures off in the distance,
yet none bother them or come into sight. The eerieness plays on their nerves, making each of them a bit jumpier
than usual.

"They call this the City of Eternal Night, because the sun never rises here. Look, there's the market." Elden
stops and points down the road they're traveling, where the others can see a bustling market with plenty of
tented shops and all manner of undead and otherworldly creatures walking alone and in pairs.

With her [eagle eyesight](https://dnd5e.wikidot.com/barbarian:totem-warrior#toc2),
Gven can see a few humans mixed amongst the moderate-sized crowd. "We should walk in pairs, I don't see any
groups larger than that." Seeing Elden pull his hood up and close, then smear some dirt on his face and cloak, she continues,
"If our luck holds, we can disguise ourselves enough to blend in and find what we need. Elden and I'll go first,
you follow in pairs close enough to keep us in sight."

Thirty seconds after Gven and Elden enter the market area, Mond and Bilwin follow. The pair attempts to peruse
the vendors' wares, but discover that the merchandise is disgusting or beyond their comprehension. They can't tell
what much of it might be. Dolor and Grindlefoot follow the half-elf and dwarf, giving them enough lead time to
appear unconnected. Of all of them, the tiefling appears to blend in the most with the crowd because of his infernal
bloodline's physical stature, horns on his head, four foot long tail, and pointed canine teeth. His calm demeanor
brings some amount of truth to the facade, as well as instills confidence in his halfling companion.

Meandering through the market, quickly looking over merchandise and the sellers, neither Gven nor Elden see
anything or anyone that might be helpful in their search. Passing by a booth with shelves of vials and jars
containing different shades of red liquid, the shopkeeper points at them.

"You don't belong here, do you?" It's a statemtent, not a question.

Gven looks to Elden, who silently shrinks behind the larger half-orc, then answers the shopkeeper. "Is it that obvious?"

"Yes, my dear, it's quite obvious. At least, to those who pay attention." 

Gven hesitates to respond and takes a moment to assess their situation, along with the discoverer. An old woman, hunched
over and moving slowly, seemingly weak and frail. Yet Gven can tell that she moves with a smooth agility that betrays the
underlying strength and speed with which she could respond to any threat. Garbed in a long robe with a deep cowl that
rests along her back, her thin, bony hands move to hidden pockets, grasping at unknown treasures within.

Removing one hand and gesturing towards a shelf with small cups of the red fluids, "Might you be interested in buying
some, ahem, drinks for yourself and your petite friend? I am Sangora, and these are Sangora's Sanguinaries."

Understanding that she's offering a way for them to buy her silence, Gven decides to be direct. "While I'm sure that
you offer the highest quality merchandise available, we're more interested in information. We will gladly pay in gold coins.
One as observant and wise as you, must be privy to knowledge unknown to others."

"Ah, your flattery is noted, and appreciated." The diminutive woman smirks and nods her head to Gven, "And you are
correct, I know many things."

"I'm thankful to hear that, and for your willingness to do business. We search for a crevice of dusk, one stable enough
to provide passage back to Neverwinter."

"I know not why you, or anyone, would willingly travel to that forsaken place, but I know of what you seek. It shall
cost you two flagons of blood, at 50 gold coins each. Would you like to choose or shall I?"

"We'll give you 150 gold coins for the information and you can keep your flagons. Deal?"

The shop keeper's eyes betray her greed, "Yes, I'll make an exception for you." Her gaze shifts to Gven's side and
then to somewhere behind her. "Your other friends might as well come closer, a momentary gathering won't create any
suspicion."

Bilwin and Mond were already standing at the edge of the shop, listening to the conversation. Dolor and Grindlefoot
were slightly further away, pretending to watch the passersby.

Dolor approaches Gven and Sangora, "Let's be clear. For our payment, you must provide us with accurate information
for how to reach a stable crevice of dusk."

"Agreed. Are you sure you want to go to that nasty town? You fit in here rather well." The tiefling declines the offer.
"Oh well, I could find work for you."

"Alas, your answer lies in a story. There was once a powerful, noble family in
Neverwinter by the name of Dolindar. They craved power and wealth by any means, as their like often do, and attempted
to trap the souls of their ancestors for nefarious purposes. Their necromancy was discovered and as punishment, they
were exiled to our world, Shadowfell. Here they were surrounded by undead they could not control, ever reminded of
their failure and banishment. The sorrow they felt was overwhelming, driving them to lives of solitude and confinement.
It is whispered that this devastating sadness powers a stable crevice of dusk somewhere in their tomb, in Neverdeath
Cemetery. That is where you will find your portal."

"Thank you for your time and information, dear lady." Gven pays the elderly woman the gold coins and turns to leave.

"Are you sure that you wouldn't like to try a taster?"

Bilwin's curiosity gets the best of him, "Do you have any fermented, like beer?"

"Why yes, I think I do. Let's see, over on this shelf, I believe." She moves towards the other side of her small
booth, looking through the flagons. Gven grabs the dwarf's shoulder with a firmness that can't be argued and begins
walking away, back towards the cemetery.

"Thank you, my lady, looks like it'll have to be another time." 

---

Returning to the graveyard and following Sangora's guidance, they eventually find a crypt with "Dolindar" etched
in stone above a wooden door. Grindlefoot approaches first to examine the door and hears the light whispering
of an evening breeze. Looking down, the weeds in front of the small structure remain unmoving. "That's odd."

As the halfing turns to tell his companions, four female creatures glide around the building's corner and
surprise the adventurers. They're wearing tattered dresses, have long claws for fingernails, eyes that glow
a deep yellow, and [canine teeth protruding from their mouths](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/17044-vampire-spawn).

<!-- Fight choreography -->

<!-- Initiative rolls:
  Bilwin - 12
  Dolor - 11
  Grindlefoot - 4
  Gven - 21
  Mond - 22
-->

<!-- Round 1 -->

Mond sees the four vampiric females approaching them, raises his hand, and gestures towards them. They immediately
[slow](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2619066-slow) to half their previous speed, the anger and fury
at being impaired is evident in their expressions.

Not one to miss a fight, Gven takes a look at the attackors and decides to invoke her
[barbarian rage](https://www.thegamer.com/dungeons-dragons-dnd-barbarian-rage-explained-guide/).
Drawing Tempest Edge from its sheath, she swings wide on the first strike, but it lands true on her second,
slicing through one of the creature's arm.

Already slowed, the injured spawn pauses to look at Gven and the wound in its arm gets smaller, as though it
regenerated to some degree. Even slowed, its attack is fast enough to get beyond Gven's defenses and it
scratches the half-orc along her shoulder.

Another of the spawn attacks Grindlefoot, but the halfling is able to jump away and evade its slashing claw.

Unexpectedly, one of the attackers is able to grapple Mond, holding the sorcerer in its undeadly grasp and
preventing him from moving.

Elden looks at the vampire spawn who has seized Mond, speaks a few words, and a
[flame-like radiance](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2236-sacred-flame) descends upon the creature. It
writhes in pain, but maintains its hold on the half-elf.

Lifting his magical stein high, Bilwin shouts,
"[Drink or die!](https://www.dndbeyond.com/classes/2-cleric?srsltid=AfmBOoqN7R7qqv9Tg2X3icABVXmuuDb1Bf9sky-oqd0Fzuqdh_skwacX#DestroyUndead-112)"!
Three of the undead spawn turn to flee, albeit slowly because of Mond's earlier spell—and freeing the sorcerer
from his grappled state. The fourth one remains, hovering close to Gven. 

Charging with Gleaming Blade, Dolor stabs the creature clean through its midsection, yet it still stands.

Thinking that Gven could use some assistance, Grindlefoot casts [Haste](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2138-haste)
on the half-orc. Unexpectedly, it has no effect and the halfling stands there, wondering what happened. He
shakes his head and casts [Shillelagh](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2249-shillelagh) on his staff,
preparing for melee combat.

Gven remembers all too well the last time Grindlefoot hastened her actions and how it felt to be suddenly
out of energy, unable to defend herself. While she trusts the halfing and is not afraid of magic, she prefers
relying on her own strength, endurance, and rage. Her attunement with her body, abilities, and endurance is
greater than most warriors ever reach. This sentiment is so engrained in her mind that she unconsciously refuses
the halfling's spell, leaving him confused as to why it failed.

<!-- Round 1 damage:
  Bilwin - 0
  Dolor - 0
  Grindlefoot - 0
  Gven - 3
  Mond - 0
-->

<!-- Round 2 -->

Seeing three of the spawn retreating from the battle, Mond targets the sole remaining attacker with a
[blue-white beam of light](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2226-ray-of-frost). It's thrown backwards
a foot and appears to be even slower after the spell's strike.

Gven reaches down into her rage and swings her greatsword with such force that it nearly cuts off the
creature's forearm. The barbarian's backhand swing connects with its other arm, creating a lengthy gash
from the shoulder to the elbow. It's still standing, but looking haggard, and lashes out with a clumsy
swing of its wounded arm, missing Gven.

"It's our turn," Bilwin whispers to his battle axe as he moves forward and swings wide, missing the
creature. Dolor follows behind the dwarf closely, slashing through the spawn's dangling arm with Gleaming
Blade. It falls to the ground and the creature screams in anger at the tiefling.

Seeing it weakened and barely standing, Grindlefoot deftly moves behind the vampire spawn and swings
his Shillelagh'd staff with all his might. The halfling looks as surprised as his victim when it cuts
through their legs at the knees, dropping their torso to the ground in death.

Grindlefoot jumps towards the mausoleum, eager to be away from their deadly foes. He opens the wooden door,
sees a steep staircase spiraling down, and takes the first few steps. Gven is close behind him, not wanting
her smaller companion to face anything alone. Dolor, Elden, Mond, and Bilwin follow them into the crypt,
crowding into the upper area.

Before anyone can touch the door's handle, it closes.

---

Descending the tightly wound staircase, Grindlefoot, Gven, and the others come to a lengthy burial chamber.
Along the walls, on each side of the one hundred and twenty foot long crypt, are carved images of people
they presume are long dead members of the Dolindar family. 

The one closest to them has a piece of paper attached to it. Grindlefoot makes his way to the paper and reads
"Newmy's room" when a ghostly elven face pokes its head out from the wall. "This is my room. Go away!" The blue
elvish head retreats behind the wall.

The halfing is unwavering, "Hi, are you Newmy? We don't want to cause any trouble, we're looking for something
and maybe you can help us. Then we can leave you alone."

The blue, ethereal head returns, "You're alive?"

"Yes, we're alive and we're looking for the crevice of dusk."

"Oh, there's dust in every crevice around here. No matter how much I clean and clean and clean, the dust
reappears in seconds." She gives them a look of exasperation and exhaustion, although it's difficult to
understand how a ghost might get tired.

"No, not dust. Crevice of dusk, with a K. It's a gateway to another world, where we need to go."

"Oh, I don't know where that might be. But I don't leave this room anymore." She points towards the other
end of the long chamber, "It's scary down there, past the door with the puzzle buttons. I used to clean
for the Dolindars when they were alive—they let me have this room all to myself. But now, they're not
resting right, like proper dead folks. You can go see for yourselves, but I'm going to stay here." Finishing
her sentence, Newmy shyly withdraws into the crypt behind the wall and the group is left on their own.

The companions continue down the long chamber, arriving at two sets of stairs further descending into the
crypt. Looking back to the group, Grindlefoot nods towards the set on the right and begins down the steps.

<!-- NOTES -->

<!-- em dash: — | Mac kebyoard shortcut = Option + Shift + Dash (-) -->
<!-- https://oatcookies.neocities.org/dndmoney to convert copper, silver, gold, and more into CP -->
<!-- Frequently used links:
  [Barbarian rage](https://www.thegamer.com/dungeons-dragons-dnd-barbarian-rage-explained-guide/)
  [Bardic inspiration](https://www.dndbeyond.com/classes/1-bard#BardicInspiration-75)
  [Chaos Bolt](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/14761-chaos-bolt)
  [eagle eyesight](https://dnd5e.wikidot.com/barbarian:totem-warrior#toc2)
  [Green-Flame Blade](https://dnd5e.wikidot.com/spell:green-flame-blade)
  [Guiding Bolt](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2619136-guiding-bolt)
  [Hanseath](https://forgottenrealms.fandom.com/wiki/Hanseath)
  [Hellish Rebuke](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/hellish-rebuke)
  [hurdy-gurdy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hurdy-gurdy)
  [Mind Spike](http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/spell:mind-spike)
  [Shillelagh](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2249-shillelagh)
  [Spiritual Weapon](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2263-spiritual-weapon)
  [Uncanny Dodge](https://roll20.net/compendium/dnd5e/Rogue#toc_10)
  [Wild Shape](https://www.dndbeyond.com/posts/635-druid-101-wild-shape-guide)
-->
<!-- Vecna: Eve of Ruin
  [Umberto's Research](https://fcssvecnaeveofruin.fandom.com/wiki/Umberto%27s_Research)
  [Vecna - Map of Neverdeath Graveyard](https://www.reddit.com/r/VecnaEveofRuin/comments/1ge3q9t/per_a_suggestion_here_are_my_maps_of_neverdeath/#lightbox)
--> 
<!--
  Lists of spells for the classes:
    - Bard spells (Bilwin): https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/class/1-bard
    - Cleric spells (Bilwin): https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/class/cleric 
    - Druid spells (Grindlefoot): https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/class/druid
    - Sorcerer spells (Mond): https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/class/sorcerer
    - Warlock spells (Dolor): https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/class/warlock
  Monsters: https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters
  Damage types: https://www.wargamer.com/dnd/damage-types
  Luck (Bilwin): http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/feat:lucky
-->
<!-- Directions on a boat:
  Port = left side
  Starboard = right side
  Bow = front
  Aft = back (inside the ship, on board)
  Stern = back (outside, offboard)
-->

<!-- Guest player: Jolivette Shevitz as Dave Chevits -->
