---
title: "Chapter 56"
show_date: true
date: 2025-06-08T17:00:00-00:00
sessiondate: "June 8, 2025"
modified: 2025-06-08
categories:
  - campaign
tags:
  - fight
  - graveyard
  - neverwinter
  - secret-learned
---

Returning to Hallix Mausoleum, the group enters the crypts, pass through the first room into the
second and turn right, carefully traversing the caved-in tunnel to the room where they finished
off the [wights](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/17059-wight). On the north wall, there are two
more doors for them to investigate, one to each side of the room where they discovered Sarcelle
Malinosh. At the west wall, a short set of stairs leads up to a landing and the closed door with a
large painted eye. In the southern wall, another caved-in tunnel leads into darkness, next to a
pile of stone rubble in the southeastern corner.

"Shall we see what lies in these other doors, next to the sorceress's prison cell?" Dolor opens
the unlocked door to the left of the cell and moves forward cautiously. It seems to be a storage room,
filled with all sorts of supplies. Crates, boxes, and large bags are stacked against one of the walls.
On two other walls are shelves containing lanterns, dry food stuff, casks of water, manacles, chains,
and more.

Two flasks catch the tiefling's eye and upon closer inspection, they both have "take to feel better"
scrawled across their fronts. Suspicious of their surroundings, Gven suggests Bilwin verify
they're healing potions and not something nefarious. Accepting the flask from Dolor, the cleric
removes the stopper, takes a sniff and casts [Detect Magic](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2619097-detect-magic).

"Oh no, these aren't going to help anyone who drinks them. Quite the opposite, really." He moves
to put them back on the shelf, but Gven suggests they might come in handy sometime.

"Indeed, they might." And he puts them into a special pocket within his
[Bag of Holding](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/4581-bag-of-holding).

---

Dolor moves to the door to the right of Sarcelle's room and opens the unlocked door to find a small
room, ten feet along each wall. It's dominated by a large iron grate in the center, easily five
feet across each way. Moving close to the grate, Gven bends down to investigate and sees that it
covers a shallow pit holding a golden harp, sheaf of papers, and piece of cloth that appears
to be saturated in blood.

Before reaching through the grate's five inch wide openings, she studies the iron enclosure more
closely. The half-orc notices blades inset around the edges of the stone encasing it. Pressing
ever-so-lightly on the grate, the blades begin to move inward—a trap for anyone who attempts to
reach through and grab the items below.

Dolor retrieves a crow bar from his backpack and attempts to use it as lever to open the grate, but
it's too heavy. Giving Gven a look, she takes the crowbar, wedges it into the narrow opening between
the grate and the stone's edge, then pushes down with all her strength. Her neck and arm muscles
bulge in effort for several seconds before the edge of the grate gives, folding upward and making
a larger opening.

"I got this!" Bilwin inches closer and a [spectral hand](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2173-mage-hand)
appears next to him. The dwarf's concentration is obvious as he moves the floating hand through the
opening created by the crowbar and retrieves each of the objects.

Mond takes the cloth from the magical hand and discovers that it's a torn edge, likely from a cloak or
coat. It's completely saturated by dried blood.

Dolor examines the harp, even playing a few chords with some sense of aptitude, to find that it's a
finely made, yet unenchanted harp.

The ethereal hand brings the papers to Bilwin, who begins to shuffle through them. "This one looks
like a map of a large estate and this one is a schedule, including locations, times, and events.
What's this scribbled in the margins?" He turns the paper slightly, so he can read the handwritten
words.

"'Her secrets will make a worthy sacrifice.' What's that mean? Oh, here's a name written on
one of the pages: Indrina Lamsensettle. That's the actor Lord Neverember wants us to find, right?"

Moving back to the previous, larger room, Dolor ascends the stairs to the door with the painted
eye and opens it warily. The doorframe is short, forcing the tiefling to duck as he goes through
it into the small room beyond. The walls are built from stone, not bored through solid rock like
the tunnels below ground. It appears to be a crossroads of sorts, with a door across the room,
opposite from the one they entered, and four bells hanging from the ceiling in a line from one
doorway to the other.

Grindlefoot looks around, "We're back at ground level. I think this might be along that stone
fenceline we saw, the one that separates the two parts of the graveyard, between the rich and
poor."

Dolor says to the group, "Before we head into the fancy crypts, shall we finish exploring the
paupers side? We didn't investigate that caved-in tunnel on the southern wall."

Everyone nods in concurrence and they return, with Gven forgetting to duck and knocking her
head on the low doorframe. "Damn short doors! No offense, Grindlefoot or Bilwin."

"None taken! But that does remind me of the Fucking Duck. What a great name for a dwarven-owned,
and dwarven-sized shop! Clever dwarf, that jeweler."

---

Once again, Dolor leads them into the southern tunnel. It goes for fifteen feet before opening
into a room almost as large as the one they just left. It's filled by a large, square pool
of water, contained by a raised stone wall that reaches Gven's knees. The structure easily
measures twenty feet on each side. There's a five foot space between it and the wall on all
sides, allowing them to navigate around the room.

Two round, rusty metal pipes run across the ceiling, from the east side to the west, each about the
circumference of a cantaloupe. Hanging immediately below them is a slightly smaller pipe in a circular
shape above the pool, with water dripping down into it from several small spickets. The circular area
of piping appears to be fed by another pipe that comes into the room from the northeast corner,
moves along the top edge of the wall, and then takes a 90 degree turn south to connect to it.
Four hallways exit the room; two on the eastern wall, one on the west wall, and
the last in the southwest corner of the southern wall.

Tentatively approaching the water, Dolor sees that it's fairly clear and notices shiny objects
at the pool's bottom. As he moves closer to get a better look, he discerns that there are watery
creatures swimming around, noticeable by the movements they make. Suddenly, two spouts of water
emerge from its surface in snake-like shapes, writhing in various ways and reaching several feet
above the water. A moment later, another [water elemental](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/17051-water-elemental)
rises from the water, this one in a humanoid shape that reaches four feet high. It begins gesturing
towards Dolor and the others with its liquified arms and hands, apparently communicating in its
own bubbly language.

"I knew this would come in handy," Dolor says as he casts
[Comprehend Languages](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2035-comprehend-languages) and begins
conversing with the elemental being.

After a few minutes of conversation back and forth between the elemental and Dolor, the tiefling
recaps for the others.

"It says we don't look like the others, 'the robed ones,' and we aren't cruel like them. I think
they might be prisoners."

In the spirit of friendship, Bilwin offers his magical beer stein to the human-shaped elemental.
"Here, I don't know if you drink beer, that might actually be cannibalism for you, but it's how
we make friends."

It looks at the stein closely, inspecting it without touching it, and then pats Bilwin on the head.

Dolor translates, "No mood for fighting today. Friend offer escape, but tiny. No fit. Like this
water. And shiny things," it points downward, to the coins in the bottom of the pool.

"One of you in room," and it points towards the hall on the south wall. "Look for robes that wave
wand and watch eye. Nearby, another creature, one of fish, not friend of robes, live here." It points
down again, "Shiny things mine."

Bilwin thanks the water element and tosses it a gold coin, which it deftly catches and then quickly
tosses to one of the snake-like elementals, who begins playing catch with the other.

---

At the end of the ten-foot hall they discover a closed door that also happens to be locked. Dolor
pulls his lockpick set from a pocket and kneels in front of it. In a matter of seconds the rogue
defeats the mechanism, surprised that he did so quickly and without triggering any traps. He pulls
the wooden door towards himself, peering into a small, dark, damp cell. Two pipes cross the ceiling,
similar to the larger room with the pool, and are noticeably leaking, as though it's intentional.
Water streams unevenly down the walls towards a drain in the middle of the floor, flowing around
a deject gnome sitting in the driest spot available to them.

Grindlefoot pokes his head into the cell, "Umberto?"

"Stephen? Is that you? Are you real? Your voice sounds different than I remember from, but I could
be hallucinating in this infurating darkness."

"My name's Grindlefoot and Lord Neverember sent us to find you, among others that have been kidnapped."

"Oh lovely, what fortune! Let's be gone!" The gnome historian pushes himself up from the wet floor,
his soggy clothes sagging uncomfortably. Seeing that he could use some assistance, Dolor casts
[Prestidigitation](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2213-prestidigitation) and the gnome's wet clothes
suddenly warm up and dry out. "Now that's a lovely spell! Much obliged, my boy."

Bilwin casts [Light](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2618996-light) on the gnome's belt. "Before we
leave, would you mind telling us a little about how you came to be imprisoned here?"

"I'm Umberto Noblin, a historian and author. I specialize in deities of all sorts, but the nefarious
ones seem to be the most interesting. Have you read any of my books? Let's see, there's _The Unmaking
of the Gods: Apocrypha on Deific Demise and Succession_ or _The Severed Spark: A Study of Divine Fragments
and Cosmic Erosion_. What about _The Pantheon Beyond the Veil: Studies in Proto-Deities and Ascending
Infidels_?"

Mond responds before the others, "No sir, I haven't read those. I did experience your lecture where you
set a chair on a table and tasked students with proving it exists. One of the students wrote a few words
on their paper, walked to your desk, handed it to you, and left the room. Everyone was astounded."

"Ah, yes, a student worthy of my time! 'What chair?' they wrote. Beautiful answer, absolutely stunning!"

Gven adds, "Very clever! But to the task at hand, can you tell us more about this current situation?
Anything about the robed ones?"

"Apologies, my lady." He looks up at Gven in the dim light projected from his belt, "Oh, you're a large one
aren't you! Yes, yes, of course I can tell you what I know. It's not much, though. They grabbed me off the
street, brought me here, threw me in this gastly room—without even a dry spot to warm myself—and fed me
this monstrosity of a food-like substance." At that point he points at a metal bowl filled with slop on the
floor next to him and kicks it across the tiny space. It clangs loudly against the stone walls before
clattering to the floor and settling into an ever-slowing rhythmic pulse as it comes to a stop.

Dolor presses, "Were you researching anything in particular? Something that might have caught their interest,
caused them to take you?"

The small-framed gnome hesitates, then looks around the room and at the open door. "Well, recently I'd
taken an interest in a particularly nasty character named Vecna. He's a
[lich](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/16943-lich) with a god complex who was betrayed by his
most trusted lieutenant, Kas. They fought, and they fought, and they fought, until Vecna finally claimed
victory. In that victory, Vecna threw Kas across the multiverse—through completely different planes of
existence—and the warlord transformed into a vampire. Their hatred and contempt for each other burns as
brightly now as it ever did. These robed zealots are Vecna's servants. Beyond that, I'm not sure of
their goal."

_The group has learned the secret of Umberto Noblin, an historian who secretly specializes in Vecna's
lore and history, including his relationship with a warlord named Kas._

The adventurers escort Umberto to the main gate, where the guards, once again, promise to arrange for
the safe travels to Lord Neverember's mansion.

---

Returning to Hallix Mausoleum, they reenter the crypts and make their way to the room with the caved-in
corner, with the painted eye on the door.

Grindlefoot turns to the others, "Who has that bloody rag we found under the grate? I have an idea."

Bilwin retrieves the rag from his bag of holding—the others curious at why he kept it—and hands it to
the gnome. He [Wild Shapes](https://www.dndbeyond.com/posts/635-druid-101-wild-shape-guide) into
a giant dog, standing easily 30 inches tall at its haunches—almost as tall as Grindlefoot's head. The
body is rectangular and heavily muscled, with a broad, deep chest. What grabs the attention of the others
is the massive head, somewhat square-shaped, with deep wrinkles in its forehead, a dark mask covering
its muzzle, lengthy drooping jowls, and V-shaped ears that hang close to its cheeks.

Bilwin exclaims, "You're a mastiff! Beautifully done, mate!" He reaches over to pet Grindlefoot on his
square head, "What a good boy you are! Such a good widdle boy! Such a big cutie-pie, aren't ya."

Grindlefoot's mastiff takes several deep sniffs of the bloody rag and then begins investigating the room's
floor.

Gven casts her only spell, [Speaks with Animals](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2619059-speak-with-animals)
and barks at Grindlefoot. "What's the plan, dog-gnome?" A barking conversation ensues between the half-orc
and the mastiff-gnome. Moments later, she turns to the others. "He's going to track the scent from that
cloth, perhaps it will lead us to one of the other kidnap victims."

As she finishes her translation, Grindlefoot barks in success and runs up the small stairwell, towards
the door with the painted eye. "He wants us to open it."

Once the door is open, the mastiff runs into the room with the four bells, sniffing along the way, and
goes to the other door, which they haven't investigated yet. Without hesitating, the massive dog jumps
into the door, crashing it open and barrels through.

The adventurers follow Grindlefoot into the unexplored room to find four robed cultists sitting at a
long table, listening to another one, standing next to them, berate them for some unknown failure. 
"I am the Teeth of Vecna and you're the Memories of Vecna! Do I make myself clear?"

---

<!-- Fight choreography -->

<!-- Initiative rolls:
  Bilwin - 18
  Dolor - 12
  Grindlefoot - 23
  Gven - 13
  Mond - 6
-->

<!-- Round 1 -->

As the robed figure finishes their sentence, Grindlefoot descends the short stairway, mirror image to the
stairs in the other room, and launches himself at the zealot with teeth bared. The robed figure moves in
time, barely escaping the punishing bite of the mastiff's jaws.

Suddenly a [cloud of mist](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2195-misty-step) appears where the cultist
stood and he reappears at the opposite side of the room. Above him, painted on the high wall, there is a
large eye staring at them from within the grip of a withered hand. Pointing at the adventurers, "Get them,
you fools! Kill them!" The robed fanatics jump up from the table and spread out, moving towards the group.

A [blazing luminescence](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2618967-sacred-flame) falls from the air onto
the leader, but they dismiss it with a wave of their hand and Bilwin grumbles in frustration. A
[beer stein](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2263-spiritual-weapon) suddenly appears in the air next to the dwarf
and an almost imperceptible blast of force smashes into the cultist, slamming them against the wall at their
back.

One of the zealots attacks Dolor with their knife in one hand while the other curls upward, as they
focus their thoughts and a dark energy forms above it. Reaching for Dolor with their magicked hand, he
evades their touch. Not even a second later, a [scary hand](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2263-spiritual-weapon)
materializes in the air next to them and emits a blast at the tiefling. Dolor
[dodges](https://roll20.net/compendium/dnd5e/Rogue#toc_10) faster than the blast can move, taking
only a minor hit to his shoulder.

In the tiefling's hands, Gleaming blade [erupts into green flames](https://dnd5e.wikidot.com/spell:green-flame-blade)
and he slams it into his attacker's side, forcing them to bend over in agony.

Another of the believers looks at Bilwin, raises his hand and
[drops fiery undulations](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2618967-sacred-flame) on the dwarf's head.
Bilwin's faith in Hanseath is strong and he suffers no damage from the attack. Another
[scary, dark-colored hand](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2263-spiritual-weapon) pops up next
to Bilwin's attacker's head and blasts the dwarf, who is caught off guard and pushed backwards a step
in pain.

The third zealot lunges at Mond with their hand outstretched, "Grovel at my feet, you non-believer!"
The sorcerer is able to resist the compulsion with a counterspell. In response to his failure, Mond's
attacker manifests a [smoky hand](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2263-spiritual-weapon) with its
middle finger sticking up, insulting the half-elf.

The last of the zealots, turns to engage Gven before realizing that she's easily a whole foot taller.
They look at her chest, where her long protective coat is unbuttoned to allow her freedom to move,
then slowly bend their head upward to look in her eyes. They extend their hand and close it forcefully,
"Stay where you are!" Gven feels the compulsion wash over her, but is able to resist and gives them a
tiny smile. Once again, a [dark hand](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2263-spiritual-weapon) appears
floating next to her attacker and it moves faster than she does, slapping her fully across the cheek
and turning her head.

Gven slowly turns back to face the smaller human fanatic, "Get ready." In one smooth motion, she pulls
Tempest Edge from its scabbard and in the upward motion, slices cleanly through the attacker's bicep,
causing them to scream out in pain. On her downward stroke, the half-orc cleaves through the forearm,
leaving them with a completely useless appendage and barely standing.

Standing within a few feet of the half-orc, Gven sees his opportunity and ends her attacker's life
with a quick thrust of Gleaming Blade, still burning in green flames.

Mond looks around at their enemies and decides to leverage their apparent advantage by casting
[Slow](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2619066-slow), which causes three of the four remaining zealots
to move at half their normal speed.

<!-- Round 1 damage:
  Bilwin - 5
  Dolor - 7
  Grindlefoot - 0
  Gven - 10
  Mond - 0
-->

<!-- Round 2 -->


<!-- NOTES -->

<!-- em dash: — | Mac kebyoard shortcut = Option + Shift + Dash (-) -->
<!-- https://oatcookies.neocities.org/dndmoney to convert copper, silver, gold, and more into CP -->
<!-- Frequently used links:
  [Barbarian rage](https://www.thegamer.com/dungeons-dragons-dnd-barbarian-rage-explained-guide/)
  [Bardic inspiration](https://www.dndbeyond.com/classes/1-bard#BardicInspiration-75)
  [Chaos Bolt](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/14761-chaos-bolt)
  [eagle eyesight](https://dnd5e.wikidot.com/barbarian:totem-warrior#toc2)
  [Hanseath](https://forgottenrealms.fandom.com/wiki/Hanseath)
  [Hellish Rebuke](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/hellish-rebuke)
  [hurdy-gurdy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hurdy-gurdy)
  [Mind Spike](http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/spell:mind-spike)
  [Shillelagh](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2249-shillelagh)
  [Spiritual Weapon](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2263-spiritual-weapon)
  [Uncanny Dodge](https://roll20.net/compendium/dnd5e/Rogue#toc_10)
  [Wild Shape](https://www.dndbeyond.com/posts/635-druid-101-wild-shape-guide)
-->
<!-- Vecna: Eve of Ruin
  [Umberto's Research](https://fcssvecnaeveofruin.fandom.com/wiki/Umberto%27s_Research)
  [Vecna - Map of Neverdeath Graveyard](https://www.reddit.com/r/VecnaEveofRuin/comments/1ge3q9t/per_a_suggestion_here_are_my_maps_of_neverdeath/#lightbox)
--> 
<!--
  Lists of spells for the classes:
    - Bard spells (Bilwin): https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/class/1-bard
    - Cleric spells (Bilwin): https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/class/cleric 
    - Druid spells (Grindlefoot): https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/class/druid
    - Sorcerer spells (Mond): https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/class/sorcerer
    - Warlock spells (Dolor): https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/class/warlock
  Monsters: https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters
  Damage types: https://www.wargamer.com/dnd/damage-types
  Luck (Bilwin): http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/feat:lucky
-->
<!-- Directions on a boat:
  Port = left side
  Starboard = right side
  Bow = front
  Aft = back (inside the ship, on board)
  Stern = back (outside, offboard)
-->

<!-- Guest player: Jolivette Shevitz as Dave Chevits -->
