---
title: "Chapter 60"
show_date: true
date: 2025-08-04T17:00:00-00:00
sessiondate: "August 04, 2025"
modified: 2025-08-04
categories:
  - campaign
tags:
  - fight
  - graveyard
  - neverwinter
---

As the companions make their way through the Evernight version of Neverdeath Graveyard,
Elden Keyward, a renouned scholar of the outer planes, explains the concept of a crevice of dusk. 

"It's essentially a weak spot between two specific planes of existence, the mortal world where the Neverwinter
we know exists and this gloomy world, called Shadowfell. Everwinter is basically a twisted, demented mirror image
of Neverwinter. A crevice of dusk acts as a portal, a doorway if you will, between the two worlds. Most of them
are transient in nature, not staying in place very long. You often find them appearing in back alleys, dank
cellars, or even closets. A few of them are stable and hold their position over long periods of time, but they're
hard to find and closely guarded secrets."

Mond listens intently, captivated by the description—and the potential of traveling between different planes
of existence. Less entranced by the scholar's lesson, Dolor suggests they find a place to take a long rest.

"I estimate we've been at this for a day, if not longer, and I'm weary." Mond and Bilwin nod their heads in
agreement. "Let's find a mausoleum that has enough space for us and with a defensible entrance."

It doesn't take long for them to come across a crypt that fits their needs. Grindlefoot opens the door and enters,
seeing a single casket in the middle of the ten by ten foot room. He walks over and taps several times on the
lid, then cocks his head listening for a response. Gven, who entered behind him, knocks softly on the wall next
to her in response.

"I heard that," the halfling says to Gven with a grin. "All clear, the current occupent is either out right now
or still dead."

The group is able to sleep undisturbed for eight hours, a refreshing change from the day's challenging events.

Long rest....

---

They wake to a desolate quiet outside the crypt, consume dry rations and water, gather their belongings and
leave the small building to make their way towards the market. They pass through the graveyard entrance, which
is similar to the one they entered in Neverwinter, except for the decaying vegetation, pitted stone work, and
rusty metal gate hanging by a single hinge. Dolor notices there are no guards, likely unnecessary in Shadowfell.

Several minutes later, they make their way eastward through the town's streets, noticing the buildings in various
states of decay and overgrown with seemingly dead vegetation. It's as dark as night and the sky has heavy clouds,
but they have no idea what time of day it might be. They hear ghouls and other creatures off in the distance,
yet none bother them or come into sight. The eerieness plays on their nerves, making each of them a bit jumpier
than usual.

"They call this the City of Eternal Night, because the sun never rises here. Look, there's the market." Elden
stops and points down the road they're traveling, where the others can see a bustling market with plenty of
tented shops and all manner of undead and otherworldly creatures walking alone and in pairs.

With her [eagle eyesight](https://dnd5e.wikidot.com/barbarian:totem-warrior#toc2),
Gven can see a few humans mixed amongst the moderate-sized crowd. "We should walk in pairs, I don't see any
groups larger than that." Seeing Elden pull his hood up and close, then smear some dirt on his face and cloak, she continues,
"If our luck holds, we can disguise ourselves enough to blend in and find what we need. Elden and I'll go first,
you follow in pairs close enough to keep us in sight."

Thirty seconds after Gven and Elden enter the market area, Mond and Bilwin follow. The pair attempts to peruse
the vendors' wares, but discover that the merchandise is disgusting or beyond their comprehension. They can't tell
what much of it might be. Dolor and Grindlefoot follow the half-elf and dwarf, giving them enough lead time to
appear unconnected. Of all of them, the tiefling appears to blend in the most with the crowd because of his infernal
bloodline's physical stature, horns on his head, four foot long tail, and pointed canine teeth. His calm demeanor
brings some amount of truth to the facade, as well as instill confidence in his halfling companion.

Meandering through the market, quickly looking over merchandise and the sellers, neither Gven nor Elden see
anything or anyone that might be helpful in their search. Passing by a booth with shelves of vials and jars
containing different shades of red liquid, the shopkeeper points at them.

"You don't belong here, do you." It's a statemtent, not a question.

Gven looks to Elden, who silently shrinks behind the larger half-orc, then answers the shopkeeper. "Is it that obvious?"

"Yes, my dear, it's quite obvious. At least, to those who pay attention." 

Gven hesitates to respond and takes a moment to assess their situation, along with the discoverer. An old woman, hunched
over and moving slowly, seemingly weak and frail. Yet Gven can tell that she moves with a smooth agility that betrays the
underlying strength and speed with which she could respond to any threat. Garbed in a long robe with a deep cowl that
rests along her back, her thin, bony hands move to hidden pockets, grasping at unknown treasures within.

Removing one hand and gesturing towards a shelf with small cups of the red fluids, "Might you be interested in buying
some, ahem, drinks for yourself and your petite friend? I am Sangora, and these are Sangora's Sanguinaries."

Understanding that she's offering a way for them to buy her silence, Gven decides to be direct. "While I'm sure that
you offer the best quality merchandise available, we're more interested in information. We will gladly pay in gold coins.
One as observant and wise as you, must be privy to knowledge completely unknown to others."

"Ah, your flattery is noted, and appreciated." The diminutive woman smirks and nods her head to Gven, "And you are
correct, I know many things."

"I'm thankful to hear that, and your willingness to do business. We search for a crevice of dusk, one stable enough
to provide passage back to Neverwinter."

"I know not why you, or anyone, would willingly travel to that forsaken place, but I know of what you seek. It shall
cost you two flagons of blood, which are 50 gold coins each. Would you like to choose or shall I?"

"We'll give you 150 gold coins for the information and you can keep your flagons. Deal?"

The shop keeper's eyes betray her greed, "Yes, I'll make an exception for you." Her gaze shifts to Gven's side and
then to somewhere behind her. "Your other friends might as well come closer, a momentary gathering won't create any
suspicion."

Bilwin and Mond were already standing at the edge of the shop, listening to the conversation. Dolor and Grindlefoot
were slightly further away, pretending to watch the passers by.

Dolor approaches Gven and Sangora, "Let's be clear. For our payment, you must provide us with accurate information
for how to reach a stable crevice of dusk."

"Agreed. Are you sure you want to go to that nasty town? You fit in here rather well." The tiefling declines the offer.
"Oh well, I could find work for you. Alas, your answer lies in a story. There was once a powerful, noble family in
Neverwinter by the name of Dolindar. They craved power and wealth by any means, as their like often do, and attempted
to trap the souls of their ancestors for nefarious purposes. Their necromancy was discovered and as punishment, they
were exiled to our world, Shadowfell. Here they were surrounded by undead they could not control, ever reminded of
their failure and banishment. The sorrow they felt was overwhelming, driving them to lives of solitude and confinement.
It is whispered that this devastating sadness powers a stable crevice of dusk somewhere in their tomb, in Neverdeath
Cemetery. That is where you will find your portal."

"Thank you for your time and information, dear lady." Gven pays the elderly woman the gold coins and turns to leave.

"Are you sure that you wouldn't like to try a taster?"

Bilwin's curiosity gets the best of him, "Do you have any fermented, like beer?"

"Why yes, I think I do. Let's see, over on this shelf, I believe." She moves towards the other side of her small
booth, looking through the flagons. Gven grabs the dwarf's shoulder with a firmness that can't be argued and begins
walking away, back towards the cemetery.

"Thank you, my lady, looks like it'll have to be another time." 

---

## CHAPTER 59

Peering into the immense hall from the door that Bilwin abruptly opened, the dwarf and Dolor see
the caged elf hanging from the ceiling in the center of the hall. Six robed figures stand around the
poor captive, sweating from the sustained efforts of their spellcasting.

From the northwest corner of the northern wall, the doorway allows them a clear view of the entire
chamber. It opens onto a balcony that spans the eighty foot width of the room, extends forty feet from
the west wall, and two stairwells on either side descend fifteen feet to the lower floor
in the middle of the room, where the captive hangs. Another balcony abuts the eastern wall, almost
two hundred feet from its opposite, and can be accessed from the lower floor with stairs on each side.

Standing at the edge of the balcony, a robed human intently watches the ceremony below him, apparently
the group's leader. Hovering behind the man in a protective manner are five one-eyed creatures, exactly
like the one they encountered only minutes ago.

Suddenly, the captive elf screams, "Get out of my head! Get out! You can't have my secrets!"

A one-eyed creature scans the room and sees the two companions; it immediately moves towards them with
obviously harmful intentions.

---

<!-- Fight choreography -->

<!-- Initiative rolls:
  Bilwin - 21 (43 remaining HP)
  Dolor - 18 (30 remaining HP)
  Grindlefoot - 5 (66 remaining HP)
  Gven - 17 (51 remaining HP)
  Mond - 6 (40 remaining HP)
-->

<!-- Round 1 -->

Bilwin sees the monster approaching and instinctively responds by casting
[Invisibility](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2619116-invisibility)
on himself and Dolor, as well as Gven and Mond, who are standing behind the tiefling. Doing his
best to get out of the creature's path, the dwarven bard quietly moves toward the stairs that
lead down to the lower floor and the robed magic-users. The barbarian and sorcerer can suddenly
see into the room and understand that it's most likely something Bilwin did, purposely or not.

Dolor realizes that he's suddenly invisible, but knows that they've been discovered and closes
on the leader with Gleaming Blade. Catching the magic-user off guard, the tiefling's short sword
slices through the man's robes and leaves a trail of blood behind it. Dolor immediately becomes
visible to everyone. As the robed man grunts in agony and surprise, Dolor deftly retrieves a
healing potion from his belt with his other hand and swigs it, instantly feeling the much needed
healing effects. 

Whispering to herself, "Here we go again," Gven moves towards the leader, invokes her
[barbarian rage](https://www.thegamer.com/dungeons-dragons-dnd-barbarian-rage-explained-guide/),
and swiftly pulls Tempest Edge from its sheath. Still invisible, the cult leader doesn't expect
her attack and is, once again, completely surprised by the blade of her greatsword cutting through
his flesh. Presuming this is the leader and will attack them with all his power, she summons Tempest
Edge's innate magic and a bolt of lightning streaks through the blue-tinted sword into the cultist.
His body convulses from the unexpected energy and she takes further advantage of his state with
another swing of Tempest Edge that carves into his side.

Realizing that he's suddenly under attack and not in a good position to retaliate, the leader dissolves
into [a mist](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2619133-misty-step). Seconds later he reappears on
the balcony at the other end of the room, momentarily safe from the swords of Dolor and Gven.
He looks deeply into Gven's eyes, removing the physical distance between them, and whispers
"[Defend me](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2619148-dominate-person)!" The barbarian considers the
command for a mere second before embracing the rage inside her. "Fuck you, wizard."

Grindlefoot enters the room, taking in the scene around him before deciding his next course of action.

Now that Dolor and Gven are visible, the five one-eyed creatures impassionately descend on them. The
first two reach out with their clawed hands and miss the tiefling and half-orc. The third monster
stares at Dolor and the rogue feels some of his life force draining away. The two remaining brutes
double-team Gven, but only one's claws connect with her shoulder and her enchanted coat protects her
from most of the harm.

Having moved closer to the center of the room, Mond loses his invisibility after a
[bolt of lightning](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2618999-lightning-bolt) shoots from his extended
hand, striking the leader on the other side of the room. He's knocked back slightly, but appears to
have limited the damage somehow.

Seeing the chanting cultists persecuting the imprisoned elf, Grindlefoot's anger rises and his only
thought is, "How dare they treat anyone that way!" Suddenly the the stone floor below the six sorcerers
[erupts into pieces](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2380-erupting-earth) that fly through the air.
Two of the robed figures are catapulted into the air, disrupting the joint spellcasting.

No longer ensorcelled, the caged elf regains his independent thought, reaches through the bars on the
bottom of the prison, and undoes the latch. A hinged door suddenly swings open and the elf falls to the
floor, obviously fatigued and in pain, but adeptly lands on his feet.

On the other side of the chamber, the leader suddenly looks fearful. "No! No! You don't understand
what you've done!"

Everyone can feel the energy in the room shift; the air goes still and it's eerily quiet. A purple-tinted
wave of energy begins to rip through the room in an unrecognizable pattern and then everything goes dark.

<!-- Round 1 damage:
  Bilwin - 0
  Dolor - 11 necrotic
  Grindlefoot - 0
  Gven - 2
  Mond - 0
-->

---

The companions feel wind begin to rush past them as they stand in place, feet firm on the stone floor of
the torture chamber. The wind's speed increases slowly at first, then slightly faster, until it forces them
to squint their eyes at the discomfort. The darkness lifts slightly as a blur of multi-colored lights
start to illuminate the area. It no longer resembles the room where they think they still stand.

Creatures appear around them, undefined in form or species and unaware of the companions' presence. The only
discernable part of their bodies are their left hands which seem to have a symbol tattooed or emblazoned on them.
Looking more intently, the companions can tell it's a hand with an eye in the palm. The same symbol they've
seen throughout the tunnels under Neverdeath Graveyard, the hand and eye of Vecna.

The otherworldly crowds of cultists shift in their attire and location. Some wear farmers clothes in rural areas,
others are garbed in the rags of the poor in large cities, and yet others wear the finery of the nobility
surrounded by their wealth. It's as though they're seeing a hundred different cities and places in a hundred
different worlds.

The scenes shift to Vecna's cultists dragging people of all species away from their homes, farms, shops,
friends, and families. The victims scream in terror, attempting to fight their captors, but fail to
gain their freedom.

Attached to each victim is an ethereal line, moving upward and away, all towards the same end. A
[lich](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/16943-lich) pulls on the supernatural threads of each victim,
ripping their secrets from them. Without knowing how, they can tell that each private thought adds power
to a glowing sphere in a distant place. They realize that they're witnessing the realm of the Lord of Secrets,
Vecna.

The moment this realization comes to the companions, Vecna's gaze shifts to them with an intesity they've
never experienced. As he focuses on them and looks deeply into their souls, once again, the room
around them suddenly goes pitch dark.

---

Surrounded by complete and utter darkness without a sound to be heard, except for the beating of each one's
own heart, realization hits that they've each received a dark gift. They can now sense the existence of
secrets all around them and have the ability to collect them, then use them for their benefit in powerful ways.
Unsure how they received or understand this new, unasked for ability, they collectively recognize it's a direct
link to Vecna.

---

Gven comes to consciousness lying on her back, again in darkness. Before anything else,
the barbarian verifies that Tempest Edge is at her side, an assurance she relies on more often than she
cares to admit. Reaching outward and upward, she quickly determines that she's in a box; most likely a
coffin, given their recent exploits.

A muffled voice comes from beyond her enclosure, "A little help, please. I don't think this is better
than that cage. Although, I'm not being tortured...yet."

Gven tests the coffin's lid to find that it lifts off with ease, not affixed to the box. Sliding the top to
the side and letting it fall to the ground, she sits up to see Bilwin is already sitting up and looking
at the stars in the night sky. Moments later, Dolor climbs out of a casket to the half-orc's other side
and walks over to the one where the voice is coming from. The tiefling lifts the lid, which also wasn't
attached, but the elf inside failed to even try to open it.

"Thank you! While I appreciate your," his mouth twists in a derisive manner, "rescue, I fail to see how
this is much better than my previous situation."

Looking around, the group sees that they're in a ten foot deep pit, roughly twenty feet square to fit
their six coffins along with a handful of others. The stars in the dark sky tell them it's nighttime,
but they have no idea of the exact time.

Cocking his head, Grindlefoot listens intently. "Do you hear that? Is that slathering and gnashing coming
from above us?"

Looking to the ledge above them, they see several [ghoulish](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/16872-ghoul)
figures peering over the side at them. The monsters have surrounded the pit, three to each side.

---

<!-- Fight choreography -->

<!-- Initiative rolls:
  Bilwin - 21
  Dolor - 19
  Grindlefoot - 22
  Gven - 18
  Mond - 17
-->

<!-- Round 1 -->

Grindlefoot is the first to react, with a few words and motion of his hands a strong
[wall of wind](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2619212-wind-wall) rises from the ground at two of the
pit's upper edges, forming a right angle. The six ghouls shiver in response to the wall, apparently
hurt by its force. Preparing for the monsters to retaliate, the halfing druid jumps from the coffin with ease,
casting [Shillelagh](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2249-shillelagh) on his staff, already in his hands.

As one, the twelve ghouls descend into the mass grave and attack the companions. Two jump at Gven,
who's able to use one's momentum to throw it across the coffin and the other misses her arm, scratching
the coffin she's still sitting in. The half-orc lowers her body back into the coffin and rolls
sideways with all her strength, toppling it over. As it falls to the ground, she gracefully rolls to her
feet and pulls Tempest Edge from its sheath.

Dolor isn't quite so fortunate as two of the undead creatures converge on the tiefling, slashing wildly
with their clawed hands. "Damnit, I'm starting to get pissed." Embracing his infernal nature, the tiefling
points his hand at one of the ghouls and it's [encased in flames](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/hellish-rebuke).
As it burns to its end, Dolor turns to the other, "Sure you want some of this?"

Meanwhile, two ghouls rush Grindlefoot, who moves nimbly, evading their clawed attacks with ease.

Mond is able to deflect the attacks of two others with a
[barrier of magical force](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2619019-shield). As much as they try, their claws 
fail to reach the sorcerer.

With a look of surprise, Bilwin realizes that he's still in the coffin as two of the monsters assault him.
They're able to take advantage of the dwarf's unpreparedness and scratch him in several places with their
infected claws. The dwarf feels the poison quickly run through his body, moving through his veins and
paralyzing him.

The elf was able to exit his coffin, but wasn't prepared to defend himself from yet another foe. While he steps
aside to elude one attacker, the other's claws scrape down his arm, causing deep gouges in his delicate skin.
Like Bilwin, the elf soon finds himself paralyzed in place, unable to move, only watch the scene unfold before him.

Dolor looks at the ghoul in front of him then to the other attackers, quickly deciding his next action. "I
told you. You don't want any of this." He holds his hands up in front of him with thumbs touching and fingers
spread and a [sheet of flames](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2021-burning-hands) bursts forth, encompassing
several of the ghouls. When the flames clear, five of the creatures lie on the ground in ashes. "Told you."

Four of the ghouls are standing over the immobilized dwarf, looking to feast on their victim. With a full
swing of her magically glowing greatsword, Gven decapitates one of them, but misses another on the backswing.

Mond sees the five remaining ghouls and makes the same hand gestures as Dolor did only moments ago, "He told you!"
Another [sheet of flames](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2021-burning-hands) shoots from the sorcerer's hands,
enveleloping the remaining attackers, swiftly turning two of them into ashes.

<!-- Round 1 damage:
  Bilwin - 16 & paralyzed
  Dolor - 11
  Grindlefoot - 0
  Gven - 0
  Mond - 0
  Elden - 5 & paralyzed
-->

<!-- Round 2 -->

Faster than one of the ghouls anticipates, Grindlefoot takes a long step to propel his small body
at it, spinning his staff in attack. The magicked wooden weapon connects solidly with the undead,
poking deep into its midsection and causing it to stumble backwards.

The other ghouls move to feast on the two paralyzed companions, two hovering over the elf and one
over Bilwin. Both victims take considerable damage from the bites.

Dolor smoothly pulls Gleaming Blade from its scabbard, utters a few words, and it
[erupts into green flames](https://dnd5e.wikidot.com/spell:green-flame-blade). Moving to the ghoul
feasting on Bilwin, the tiefling stabs it through the shoulder and it falls lifeless to the ground.
Turning towards another ghoul, Dolor uses the energy from his body's spin to add force to his sword stroke
and cleanly removes its head.

Only one ghoul remains, still feasting on the paralyzed elf they already saved once. Gven takes the few
steps towards the creature, bringing Tempest Edge into a wide, sweeping circle above her head. The greatsword
gains momentum as she reaches her opponent, coming full circle in front of her just as the blade connects with
its shoulder in a downward motion. Without a battle cry or comedic quip, the barbarian cleaves through the ghoul,
from its shoulder to its hip, cutting it in half.

---

Several minutes later, Bilwin and the elf regain their ability to move and introductions ensue.

"I'm Elden Keyward, and you have my utmost gratitude for rescuing me. Please ignore my comments
about wanting to go back. I was, um, in shock, I think."

Both Elden and Bilwin whisper a few [words](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2619143-healing-word) and their
wounds magically smooth over, the skin healing underneath the sticky blood. 

Eventually, the group climbs the sides of the pit to see where they are and get their bearings. Perhaps
they're back in Neverwinter or another part of Neverdeath Graveyard. What they find confirms that they're
in Neverdeath Graveyard, but not the version they left.

The stone vaults and tombs are somehow twisted, as
though they've been bent by some magic. The vaults and walls are covered with slimy vines that seem dead
even as they move on their own. Looking closely at the trees, they notice the jagged way the limbs
connect to each other, the distinct lack of leaves, and their dull gray coloring. Looking up to the sky,
the stars look as though they're swimming in oil, not the usual clear or cloudy night sky.

Elden sighs, "This isn't good, but it's not surprising. We're in Evernight. It's a mirror plane of Neverwinter,
populated only by the undead. We need to find a crevice to get back to our plane. Let's head towards the market,
we might get lucky there."

Dolor whispers, "That depends on your definition of lucky."

<!-- NOTES -->

<!-- em dash: — | Mac kebyoard shortcut = Option + Shift + Dash (-) -->
<!-- https://oatcookies.neocities.org/dndmoney to convert copper, silver, gold, and more into CP -->
<!-- Frequently used links:
  [Barbarian rage](https://www.thegamer.com/dungeons-dragons-dnd-barbarian-rage-explained-guide/)
  [Bardic inspiration](https://www.dndbeyond.com/classes/1-bard#BardicInspiration-75)
  [Chaos Bolt](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/14761-chaos-bolt)
  [eagle eyesight](https://dnd5e.wikidot.com/barbarian:totem-warrior#toc2)
  [Green-Flame Blade](https://dnd5e.wikidot.com/spell:green-flame-blade)
  [Guiding Bolt](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2619136-guiding-bolt)
  [Hanseath](https://forgottenrealms.fandom.com/wiki/Hanseath)
  [Hellish Rebuke](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/hellish-rebuke)
  [hurdy-gurdy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hurdy-gurdy)
  [Mind Spike](http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/spell:mind-spike)
  [Shillelagh](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2249-shillelagh)
  [Spiritual Weapon](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/2263-spiritual-weapon)
  [Uncanny Dodge](https://roll20.net/compendium/dnd5e/Rogue#toc_10)
  [Wild Shape](https://www.dndbeyond.com/posts/635-druid-101-wild-shape-guide)
-->
<!-- Vecna: Eve of Ruin
  [Umberto's Research](https://fcssvecnaeveofruin.fandom.com/wiki/Umberto%27s_Research)
  [Vecna - Map of Neverdeath Graveyard](https://www.reddit.com/r/VecnaEveofRuin/comments/1ge3q9t/per_a_suggestion_here_are_my_maps_of_neverdeath/#lightbox)
--> 
<!--
  Lists of spells for the classes:
    - Bard spells (Bilwin): https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/class/1-bard
    - Cleric spells (Bilwin): https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/class/cleric 
    - Druid spells (Grindlefoot): https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/class/druid
    - Sorcerer spells (Mond): https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/class/sorcerer
    - Warlock spells (Dolor): https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/class/warlock
  Monsters: https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters
  Damage types: https://www.wargamer.com/dnd/damage-types
  Luck (Bilwin): http://dnd5e.wikidot.com/feat:lucky
-->
<!-- Directions on a boat:
  Port = left side
  Starboard = right side
  Bow = front
  Aft = back (inside the ship, on board)
  Stern = back (outside, offboard)
-->

<!-- Guest player: Jolivette Shevitz as Dave Chevits -->
